<div class="center">
<a name="P_I_0"></a><a href="#P_I_0n">I.</a><br><br>
ODE ON THE SPRING.<br><br></div>
Lo! where the rosy-bosomed Hours,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Fair Venus' train, appear,<br>
Disclose the long-expecting flowers,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And wake the purple year!<br>
<a name="P_I_5"></a><a href="#P_I_5n">The Attic warbler</a> 
<a href="#P_I_5n2">pours her throat</a>,<br>
Responsive to the cuckoo's note,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The untaught harmony of spring;<br>
While, whispering pleasure as they fly,<br>
Cool Zephyrs thro' the clear blue sky<br>
<a name="P_I_10"></a>&nbsp; &nbsp; Their gathered fragrance fling.<br><br>
Where'er the oak's thick branches stretch<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; A broader browner shade,<br>
<a name="P_I_13"></a>Where'er the rude and moss-grown beech<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; O'er-canopies the glade,<a id="p1:p3:an1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p3:n1">1</a></sup><br>
Beside some water's rushy brink<br>
With me the Muse shall sit, and think<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; (At ease reclined in rustic state)<br>
How vain the ardour of the crowd,
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p3:n1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p3:an1">1</a></sup> &nbsp;14. &nbsp; &nbsp;"— a bank . . . .<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; O'ercanopied with luscious woodbine."<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;<i>Midsummer Night's Dream,</i> ii. 2.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p4" class="page"><div class="center"><em>4</em></div><br>How low, how little are the proud,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; How indigent the great!<br><br>
Still is the toiling hand of Care;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The panting herds repose;<br>
Yet hark, how through the peopled air<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_I_24"></a><a href="#P_I_24n">The busy murmur</a> glows!<br>
The insect youth are on the wing,<br>
Eager to taste the honied spring,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And float amid the liquid noon;<a id="p1:p4:an2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p4:n2">2</a></sup><br>
Some lightly o'er the current skim,<br>
Some show their gaily-gilded trim<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Quick-glancing to the sun.<a id="p1:p4:an3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p4:n3">3</a></sup><br><br>
<a name="P_I_31-40"></a><a href="#P_I_31-40n">To Contemplation's</a> sober eye<a id="p1:p4:an4"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p4:n4">4</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Such is the race of Man;<br>
And they that creep, and they that fly,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Shall end where they began.<br>
Alike the Busy and the Gay<br>
But flutter through life's little day,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; In fortune's varying colours drest;<br>
Brushed by the hand of rough Mischance,<br>
Or chilled by age, their airy dance<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; They leave, in dust to rest.
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p4:n2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p4:an2">2</a></sup> &nbsp;27. "Nare per sestatem liquidam."<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Virgil, <i>Georgic,</i>
 iv. 59. 
<br><a id="p1:p4:n3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p4:an3">3</a></sup> &nbsp;30. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;". . . . sporting with quick glance<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Show to the sun their waved coats dropped<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; with gold."—<i>Par. Lost,</i> vii. 405.
<br><a id="p1:p4:n4"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p4:an4">4</a></sup> &nbsp;31. "While insects from the threshold preach," etc.<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;M. Green, in <i>the Grotto.</i> Dodsley's <i>Miscellanies,</i> v. 161.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p5" class="page"><div class="center"><em>5</em></div><br>Methinks I hear in accents low<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_I_42"></a><a href="#P_I_42n">The sportive kind reply:</a><br>
Poor moralist! and what art thou?<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; A solitary fly!<br>
Thy joys no glittering female meets,<br>
No hive hast thou of hoarded sweets,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; No painted plumage to display;<br>
On hasty wings thy youth is flown<br>
<a name="P_I_49"></a><a href="#P_I_49n">Thy sun is set</a>, thy spring is gone—<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; We frolic, while 'tis May.<br>
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center">
<a name="P_II_0"></a><a href="#P_II_0n">II.</a><br><br>
ODE ON THE DEATH OF A FAVOURITE CAT,<br>
<div class="small">DROWNED IN A TUB OF GOLD FISHES.</div><br><br></div>
<a name="P_II_1-6"></a><a href="#P_II_1-6n">'Twas on a</a> lofty vase's side,<br>
<a name="P_II_2"></a><a href="#P_II_2n">Where China's</a> gayest art had dyed<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The azure <a name="P_II_3"></a><a href="#P_II_3n">flowers, that blow</a>;<br>
<a name="P_II_4"></a>Demurest of the <a href="#P_II_4n">tabby</a> kind,<br>
The pensive Selima, reclined,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Gazed on the lake below.<br><br>
Her conscious tail her joy declared;<br>
The fair round face, the snowy beard,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The velvet of her paws,<br>
<a name="P_II_10"></a>Her coat, that with the tortoise vies,<br>
Her ears of jet, and emerald eyes,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; She saw; and purred applause.
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p6" class="page"><div class="center"><em>6</em></div><br>Still had she gazed; but 'midst the tide<br>
<a name="P_II_14"></a><a href="#P_II_14n">Two angel forms</a> were seen to glide,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The Genii of the stream;<br>
Their scaly armour's Tyrian hue<br>
Through richest purple to the view<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Betrayed a golden gleam.<br><br>
The hapless nymph with wonder saw;<br>
A whisker first and then a claw,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; With many an ardent wish,<br>
She stretched in vain to reach the prize.<br>
What female heart can gold despise?<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; What Cat's <a name="P_II_24"></a><a href="#P_II_24n">averse to fish?</a><br><br>
Presumptuous maid! with <a name="P_II_25"></a><a href="#P_II_25n">looks</a> intent<br>
Again she stretched, again she bent,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Nor knew the gulf between.<br>
(Malignant Fate sat by, and smiled)<br>
The slippery verge her feet beguiled,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; She tumbled headlong in.<br><br>
<a name="P_II_31-36"></a><a href="#P_II_31-36n">Eight times</a> emerging from the flood<br>
She mewed to every wat'ry god,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Some speedy aid to send.<br>
No Dolphin came, no Nereid stirred;<br>
Nor cruel Tom, <a name="P_II_35"></a><a href="#P_II_35n">nor Susan heard</a>.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_II_36"></a><a href="#P_II_36n">A fav'rite has no friend!</a><br><br>
<a name="P_II_37-42"></a>From hence, ye Beauties, undeceived,<br>
Know, one false step is ne'er retrieved,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And be with caution bold.
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p7" class="page"><div class="center"><em>7</em></div><br>Not all that <a name="P_II_40"></a><a href="#P_II_40n">tempts</a> your wand'ring eyes<br>
And heedless hearts is lawful prize;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_II_42"></a><a href="#P_II_42n">Nor all, that glisters, gold</a>.<br>
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_III_0"></a><a href="#P_III_0n">III.</a><br><br>
ODE ON A DISTANT PROSPECT OF<br>ETON COLLEGE.<br></div>
<blockquote>
<i>Ανθρωπος' 
ίκανή 
πρόφασις 
εις το 
δυστνχέίν.</i><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Menander.
</blockquote>
Ye distant spires, ye <a name="P_III_1-10"></a><a href="#P_III_1-10n">antique</a> towers,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; That crown the wat'ry glade,<br>
<a name="P_III_3"></a>Where grateful Science still adores<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Her Henry's holy Shade;<a id="p1:p7:an1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p7:n1">1</a></sup><br>
And ye, that from the stately brow<br>
Of Windsor's heights the expanse below<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Of grove, of lawn, of mead survey,<br>
Whose turf, whose shade, whose flowers among<br>
Wanders the hoary Thames along<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; His silver-winding way.<br><br>
Ah happy hills, ah pleasing shade,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Ah fields <a name="P_III_12-20"></a><a href="#P_III_12-20n">beloved in vain</a>,<br>
Where once my careless childhood strayed,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; A stranger yet to pain!<br>
I feel the gales, that from ye blow,<br>
A momentary bliss bestow,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; As waving fresh their gladsome wing
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p7:n1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p7:an1">1</a></sup> &nbsp;4. King Henry the Sixth, Founder of the College.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p8" class="page"><div class="center"><em>8</em></div><br>My weary soul they seem to soothe,<br>
And, redolent of joy and youth,<a id="p1:p8:an2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p8:n2">2</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; To breathe a second spring.<br><br>
<a name="P_III_21-30"></a><a href="#P_III_21-30n">Say, Father Thames</a>, for thou hast seen<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Full many a sprightly race<br>
Disporting on thy margent green<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The paths of pleasure trace,<br>
Who foremost now delight to cleave<br>
With pliant arm thy glassy wave?<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The captive linnet which enthrall?<br>
What idle progeny succeed<br>
<a name="P_III_29"></a><a href="#P_III_29n">To chase the rolling circle's speed,</a><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Or urge the flying ball?<br><br>
While some on earnest business bent<br>
<a name="P_III_32"></a>&nbsp; &nbsp; Their murmuring labours ply<br>
'Gainst graver hours, that bring constraint<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; To sweeten liberty;<br>
Some bold adventurers disdain<br>
The limits of their little reign,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And unknown regions dare descry;<br>
Still as they run they look behind,<br>
They hear a voice in every wind,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And snatch a fearful joy.<br><br>
Gay hope is theirs by fancy fed,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Less pleasing when possest;<br>
The tear forgot as soon as shed,
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p8:n2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p8:an2">2</a></sup> &nbsp;19. "And bees their honey redolent of spring."<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
 Dryden's <i>Fable on the Pythagorean System.</i>
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p9" class="page"><div class="center"><em>9</em></div><br>&nbsp; &nbsp; The sunshine of the breast;<br>
Theirs buxom health of rosy hue,<br>
Wild wit, invention ever-new,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And lively cheer of vigour born;<br>
The thoughtless day, the easy night,<br>
The spirits pure, the slumbers light,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; That fly th' approach of morn.<br><br>
Alas, regardless of their doom,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The little victims play!<br>
No sense have they of ills to come,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Nor care beyond to-day;<br>
Yet see how <a name="P_III_55-59"></a><a href="#P_III_55-59n">all around 'em</a> wait<br>
The Ministers of human fate,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And black Misfortune's baleful train!<br>
Ah, show them where in ambush stand,<br>
To seize their prey, the <a name="P_III_59"></a><a href="#P_III_59n">murtherous</a> band!<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Ah, tell them, they are men!<br><br>
These shall the fury Passions tear,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The vultures of the mind,<br>
Disdainful Anger, pallid Fear,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And Shame that skulks behind;<br>
Or pining Love shall waste their youth,<br>
Or Jealousy with rankling tooth,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; That inly gnaws the secret heart,<br>
And Envy wan, and faded Care,<br>
Grim-visaged comfortless Despair,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And Sorrow's piercing dart.<br><br>
Ambition this shall tempt to rise,
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p10" class="page"><div class="center"><em>10</em></div><br>&nbsp; &nbsp; Then whirl the wretch from high,<br>
To bitter Scorn a sacrifice,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And grinning Infamy.<br>
The stings of Falsehood those shall try,<br>
And hard Unkindness' altered eye,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; That mocks the tear it forced to flow;<br>
And keen Remorse with blood denied,<br>
And moody Madness laughing wild<a id="p1:p10:an3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p10:n3">3</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Amid severest woe.<br><br>
Lo! in the vale of years beneath<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; A grisly troop are seen,<br>
The painful family of Death,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; More hideous than their queen.<br>
This racks the joints, this fires the veins,<br>
That every labouring sinew strains,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Those in the deeper vitals rage;<br>
Lo, Poverty, to fill the band,<br>
That numbs the soul with icy hand,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And slow-consuming Age.<br><br>
To each his sufferings; all are men,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_III_92"></a><a href="#P_III_92n">Condemned alike</a> to groan,<br>
The tender for another's pain,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The unfeeling for his own.<br>
<a name="P_III_95"></a>Yet ah! why should they know their fate?<br>
Since sorrow never comes too late,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And happiness too swiftly flies.
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p10:n3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p10:an3">3</a></sup> &nbsp;79. "Madness laughing in his ireful mood."<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
 Dryden's <i>Fable of Palamon and Arcite,</i> ii. 43.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p11" class="page"><div class="center"><em>11</em></div><br>Thought would destroy their paradise.<br>
No more; where ignorance is bliss,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Tis folly to be wise.<br>
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_IV_0"></a><a href="#P_IV_0n">IV.</a><br><br>
HYMN TO ADVERSITY.<br></div>
<blockquote>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
—<i>Ζήνα</i> . . <br>
<i>Τόν ϕρονέϊν 
Βροτούς όδώ-<br>
σαντα, τώ πάθει
μαθάν<br>
θέντα κυρίως 
εχειν.</i><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Æschylus, <i>in Agamemnone.</i>
</blockquote>
Daughter of Jove, relentless Power,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Thou Tamer of the human breast,<br>
Whose iron <a name="P_IV_3"></a><a href="#P_IV_1-8n">scourge and torturing hour</a><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The bad affright, afflict the best!<br>
Bound in thy <a name="P_IV_5"></a><a href="#P_IV_1-8n">adamantine chain</a><br>
The proud are taught to taste of pain,<br>
And purple tyrants vainly groan<br>
With <a name="P_IV_8"></a><a href="#P_IV_1-8n">pangs unfelt before</a>, <a href="#P_IV_8n">unpitied and alone</a>.<br><br>
When first thy Sire to send on earth<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Virtue, his darling child, designed,<br>
To thee he gave the heavenly birth,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And bad to form her infant mind.<br>
Stern rugged Nurse! thy rigid lore<br>
With patience many a year she bore;
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p12" class="page"><div class="center"><em>12</em></div><br>What sorrow was, thou bad'st her know,<br>
And from her own she learned to melt at others' woe.<br><br>
Scared at thy frown terrific, fly<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Self-pleasing Folly's idle brood,<br>
Wild Laughter, Noise, and thoughtless Joy,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And leave us leisure to be good.<br>
Light they disperse, and with them go<br>
The summer friend, the flattering foe;<br>
By vain Prosperity received,<br>
To her they vow their truth, and are again believed.<br><br>
Wisdom in sable garb arrayed,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Immersed in rapturous thought profound,<br>
And Melancholy, silent <a name="P_IV_27"></a><a href="#P_IV_27n">maid</a><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; With leaden eye, that loves the ground,<br>
Still on thy solemn steps attend;<br>
Warm Charity, the general friend,<br>
With Justice to herself severe,<br>
<a name="P_IV_32"></a><a href="#P_IV_32n">And Pity, dropping soft the sadly-pleasing tear</a>.<br><br>
Oh, gently on thy suppliant's head,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Dread Goddess, lay thy chastening hand!<br>
Not in thy Gorgon terrors clad,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_IV_36"></a><a href="#P_IV_36n">Nor</a> circled with the vengeful band<br>
(As by the impious thou art seen)<br>
With thundering voice, and threatening mien,<br>
With screaming Horror's funeral cry,<br>
Despair, and fell Disease, and ghastly Poverty.
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p13" class="page"><div class="center"><em>13</em></div><br>Thy form benign, oh Goddess, wear,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Thy milder influence impart,<br>
Thy <a name="P_IV_43"></a><a href="#P_IV_43n">philosophic train</a> be there<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; To soften, not to wound my heart,<br>
<a name="P_IV_45-47"></a><a href="#P_IV_45-47n">The generous spark</a> extinct revive,<br>
Teach me to love and to forgive,<br>
Exact my own defects to scan,<br>
What others are, to feel, and know myself a Man.<br>
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_V_0"></a><a href="#P_V_0n">V.</a><br><br>
THE PROGRESS OF POESY.<br><br>
<div class="small">A PINDARIC ODE.</div></div>
<blockquote>
<i>Φωνάντα
συνετοϊσιν
ές</i><br> 
Δε <i>το πάν
ερμηνεων
χατίζει.</i><br> 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Pindar, <i>Olymp.</i> ii.
</blockquote>
<p class="center">I. 1.</p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_V_1"></a><a href="#P_V_1n">Awake,</a> <a href="#P_V_1n2">AEolian lyre, awake</a>,<a id="p1:p13:an1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p13:n1">1</a></sup><br>
And give to <a name="P_V_2"></a><a href="#P_V_2n">rapture</a> all thy trembling strings.<br>
From Helicon's harmonious springs<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; A thousand rills their mazy progress take;
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p13:n1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p13:an1">1</a></sup> &nbsp;1. "Awake, my glory; awake, lute and harp."<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; David's <i>Psalms.</i><br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; Pindar styles his own poetry, with its musical accompaniments,
 <i>Αίοληίς
 μολπή, 
 Αίολίδες
 χορδαι,
 Αίολίδων πνοαι
 αυλών,</i> AEolian song, AEolian strings, the breath of the AEolian flute.<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; The subject and simile, as usual with Pindar, are [p. 14] 
 united. The various sources of poetry, which gives life and lustre 
 to all it touches, are here described; its quiet majestic progress 
 enriching every subject (otherwise dry and barren) with a pomp of 
 diction and luxuriant harmony of numbers; and its more rapid and 
 irresistible course, when swollen and hurried away by the conflict 
 of tumultuous passions.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p14" class="page"><div class="center"><em>14</em></div><br><a name="P_V_5"></a>The laughing flowers, that round them blow,<br>
Drink life and fragrance as they flow.<br>
Now the rich stream of music winds along,<br>
Deep, majestic, smooth, and strong,<br>
Through verdant vales, and Ceres' golden reign;<br>
Now rolling down the steep amain,<br>
<a name="P_V_11"></a><a href="#P_V_11n">Headlong, impetuous, see it pour</a>;<br>
The rocks and nodding groves rebellow to the roar.<br>
<p class="center">I. 2.<a id="p1:p14:an2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p14:n2">2</a></sup></p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Oh! Sovereign of <a name="P_V_13"></a><a href="#P_V_13n">the willing soul</a>,<br>
Parent of sweet and <a name="P_V_14"></a><a href="#P_V_14n">solemn-breathing</a> airs,<br>
Enchanting shell! the sullen Cares<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And frantic Passions hear thy soft control.<br>
On Thracia's hills the Lord of War<br>
Has curbed the fury of his car,<br>
And dropped his thirsty lance at thy command.<br>
Perching on the sceptred hand<a id="p1:p14:an3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p14:n3">3</a></sup><br>
Of Jove, thy magic lulls <a name="P_V_21"></a><a href="#P_V_20-21n">the feathered king</a><br>
With ruffled plumes and <a name="P_V_22"></a><a href="#P_V_22n">flagging wing</a>;
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p14:n2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p14:an2">2</a></sup> &nbsp;13-24. Power of harmony to calm the turbulent sallies of the soul. 
 The thoughts are boriowed from the first Pythian of Pindar.
<br><a id="p1:p14:n3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p14:an3">3</a></sup> &nbsp;20. This is a weak imitation of some incomparable lines in the same Ode.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p15" class="page"><div class="center"><em>15</em></div><br>Quenched in <a name="P_V_23"></a><a href="#P_V_23n">dark</a> clouds of slumber lie<br>
The terror of his beak, and lightnings of his eye.<br>
<p class="center">I. 3.<a id="p1:p15:an4"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p15:n4">4</a></sup></p>
Thee the voice, the dance, obey,<br>
<a name="P_V_26"></a>Tempered to thy warbled lay.<br>
O'er <a name="P_V_27"></a><a href="#P_V_27n">Idalia's</a> <a href="#P_V_27n2">velvet-green</a><br>
The rosy-crowned Loves are seen<br>
On Cytherea's day<br>
With antic <a name="P_V_30"></a><a href="#P_V_30n">Sports</a>, and blue-eyed Pleasures,<br>
Frisking light in <a name="P_V_31"></a><a href="#P_V_31n">frolic</a> measures;<br>
Now pursuing, now retreating,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Now in circling troops they meet;<br>
To brisk notes <a name="P_V_34"></a><a href="#P_V_34n">in cadence</a> beating<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Glance their <a name="P_V_35"></a><a href="#P_V_35n">many-twinkling</a> feet.<a id="p1:p15:an5"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p15:n5">5</a></sup><br>
Slow melting strains their Queen's approach declare;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Where'er she turns the Graces homage pay.<br>
With arms sublime, that float upon the air,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; In gliding state she <a name="P_V_39"></a><a href="#P_V_39n">wins her easy way</a>;<br>
O'er her warm cheek, and rising bosom, move<br>
The bloom of young Desire, and purple light of Love.<a id="p1:p15:an6"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p15:n6">6</a></sup>
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p15:n4"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p15:an4">4</a></sup> &nbsp;25-41. Power of harmony to produce all the graces of motion in the body.
<br><a id="p1:p15:n5"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p15:an5">5</a></sup> &nbsp;35. <i>Μαρμαρυγάς
 ϧηέϊτο ποδων'
 ϧαύμαζε δε
 ϧυμώ.</i><br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Homer, <i>Od.</i> θ. 265.
<br><a id="p1:p15:n6"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p15:an6">6</a></sup> &nbsp;41. <i>Λάμπει δ' έπι
 πορϕυρεησί<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Παρείησι
 ϕως έρωτος.</i><br> 
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Phrynichus, apud Athenaeum.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p16" class="page"><div class="center"><em>16</em></div><br><div class="center">II. 1.<a id="p1:p16:an7"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p16:n7">7</a></sup></div><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Man's feeble race what ills await!<br>
Labour, and Penury, the racks of Pain,<br>
Disease, and Sorrow's weeping train,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And Death, sad refuge from the storms of Fate!<br>
The fond complaint, my Song, disprove,<br>
And justify the laws of Jove.<br>
Say, has he given in vain the heavenly Muse?<br>
Night, and all her sickly dews,<br>
Her spectres wan, and birds of boding cry,<br>
<a name="P_V_51"></a><a href="#P_V_51n">He gives</a> to range the dreary sky;<br>
<a name="P_V_52-53"></a><a href="#P_V_52-53n">Till down</a> the eastern cliffs afar<a id="p1:p16:an8"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p16:n8">8</a></sup><br>
Hyperion's march they <a name="P_V_53"></a><a href="#P_V_53n">spy</a>, and glittering shafts <a href="#P_V_53n2">of war</a>.<br>
<p class="center">II. 2.<a id="p1:p16:an9"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p16:n9">9</a></sup></p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; In climes beyond the solar road,<a id="p1:p16:an10"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p16:n10">10</a></sup><br>
Where shaggy forms o'er ice-built mountains roam,<br>
The Muse has broke the twilight gloom<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; [To cheer the <a name="P_V_57"></a><a href="#P_V_57n">shivering</a> native's dull abode.]
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p16:n7"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p16:an7">7</a></sup> &nbsp;42-53. To compensate the real and imaginary ills of life, the Muse 
 was given to mankind by the same Providence that sends the 
 day, by its cheerful presence, to dispel the gloom and terrors 
 of the night.
<br><a id="p1:p16:n8"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p16:an8">8</a></sup> &nbsp;52. "Or seen the Morning's well-appointed Star<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Come marching up the eastern hills afar."<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Cowley.
<br><a id="p1:p16:n9"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p16:an9">9</a></sup> &nbsp;54-65. Extensive influence of poetic genius over the remotest and most 
 uncivilized nations: its connection with liberty, and the 
 virtues that naturally attend on [p. 17] it. (See the Erse, Norwegian, 
 and Welsh fragments, the Lapland and American songs.)
<br><a id="p1:p16:n10"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p16:an10">10</a></sup> &nbsp;[p. 17] 54. "Extra anni solisque vias."<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Virgil, <i>Æneid,</i> vi. 795.<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; "Tutta lontana dal camin del sole."<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Petrarch, <i>Canzon,</i> 2.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p17" class="page"><div class="center"><em>17</em></div><br>And oft, beneath the odorous shade<br>
Of Chili's boundless forests laid,<br>
She deigns to hear the savage youth repeat,<br>
In loose numbers wildly sweet,<br>
Their feather-cinctured Chiefs, and dusky Loves.<br>
Her track, where'er the Goddess roves,<br>
Glory pursue, and generous Shame,<br>
The unconquerable Mind, and Freedom's holy flame.<br>
<p class="center">II. 3.<a id="p1:p17:an11"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p17:n11">11</a></sup></p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Woods, that wave o'er Delphi's steep,<br>
Isles, that crown the AEgean deep,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Fields, that cool Ilissus laves,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Or where <a name="P_V_69"></a><a href="#P_V_69n">Maeander's</a> amber waves<br>
In lingering labyrinths creep,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; How do your tuneful echoes languish,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Mute, but to the voice of Anguish!<br>
Where <a name="P_V_73"></a><a href="#P_V_73n">each old poetic mountain</a>
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p17:n11"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p17:an11">11</a></sup> &nbsp;66-82. Progress of Poetry from Greece to Italy, and from Italy to 
 England. Chaucer was not unacquainted with the writings of 
 Dante or of Petrarch. The Earl of Surrey and Sir Thomas Wyatt 
 had travelled in Italy, and formed their taste there. Spenser 
 imitated the Italian writers; Milton improved [p. 18] on them; 
 but this school expired soon after the Restoration, and a
 new one arose on the French model, which has subsisted ever since.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p18" class="page"><div class="center"><em>18</em></div><br>&nbsp; &nbsp; Inspiration breathed around;<br>
Every shade and hallowed fountain<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_V_76"></a><a href="#P_V_76n">Murmured deep a solemn sound</a>;<br>
Till the sad Nine in Greece's evil hour<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Left their Parnassus for the Latian plains.<br>
Alike they scorn the pomp of tyrant-Power,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And coward Vice, that revels in her chains.<br>
When Latium had her lofty spirit lost,<br>
They sought, oh Albion! next thy sea-encircled coast.<br>
<p class="center">III. 1.</p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_V_83"></a><a href="#P_V_83n">Far from the sun</a> and summer-gale,<br>
In thy green lap was <a name="P_V_84"></a><a href="#P_V_84n">Nature's Darling</a> laid,<a id="p1:p18:an12"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p18:n12">12</a></sup><br>
What time, where lucid Avon strayed,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; To him the mighty Mother did unveil<br>
Her awful face. The dauntless <a name="P_V_87-88"></a><a href="#P_V_87-88n">Child<br>
Stretched forth</a> his little arms, and smiled.<br>
This <a name="P_V_89"></a><a href="#P_V_89n">pencil</a> take (she said) whose colours clear<br>
Richly paint the vernal year;<br>
Thine too these <a name="P_V_91"></a><a href="#P_V_91n">golden keys</a>, immortal Boy!<br>
This can unlock the gates of Joy,<br>
Of <a name="P_V_93"></a><a href="#P_V_93n">Horror</a> that, and thrilling Fears,<br>
Or ope the sacred source of sympathetic Tears.
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p18:n12"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p18:an12">12</a></sup> &nbsp;84. Shakespeare.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p19" class="page"><div class="center"><em>19</em></div><br><div class="center">III. 2.</div><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Nor second He, that rode sublime<a id="p1:p19:an13"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p19:n13">13</a></sup><br>
Upon the seraph-wings of Ecstasy,<br>
The secrets of th' Abyss to spy,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; He passed the flaming bounds of Place and Time;<a id="p1:p19:an14"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p19:n14">14</a></sup><br>
The living Throne, the sapphire-blaze,<a id="p1:p19:an15"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p19:n15">15</a></sup><br>
Where Angels tremble, while they gaze,<br>
He saw; but, blasted with excess of light,<br>
Closed his eyes in endless night.<a id="p1:p19:an16"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p19:n16">16</a></sup><br>
Behold, where Dryden's less presumptuous car<br>
Wide o'er the fields of Glory bear<br>
Two <a name="P_V_105"></a><a href="#P_V_105n">Coursers</a> of <a href="#P_V_105n2">ethereal</a> race,<a id="p1:p19:an17"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p19:n17">17</a></sup><br>
With  necks  in  thunder  clothed,  and  <a name="P_V_106"></a><a href="#P_V_106n">long-resounding</a> pace.<a id="p1:p19:an18"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p19:n18">18</a></sup>
<p class="center">III. 3.</p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Hark, his hands the lyre explore!<br>
<a name="P_V_108"></a><a href="#P_V_108n">Bright-eyed</a> Fancy hovering o'er
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p19:n13"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p19:an13">13</a></sup> &nbsp;[p. 18] 95. Milton.
<br><a id="p1:p19:n14"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p19:an14">14</a></sup> &nbsp;[p. 18] 98. "Flammantia moenia mundi."<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Lucretius, i. 74.
<br><a id="p1:p19:n15"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p19:an15">15</a></sup> &nbsp;[p. 18] 99. "For the spirit of the living creature was in [p. 19] the 
 wheels. . . And above the firmament, that was over their heads, 
 was the likeness of a throne, as the appearance of a sapphire 
 stone. . . This was the appearance of the glory of the 
 Lord."—Ezekiel, i. 20, 26, 28.
<br><a id="p1:p19:n16"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p19:an16">16</a></sup> &nbsp;102. <i>'Οφθαλμών 
 μεν άμερσε 
 δίδου δ' 
 ήδεϊαν 
 άοιδήν.<br></i>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Hom. <i>Odyssey,</i> θ. 64.
<br><a id="p1:p19:n17"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p19:an17">17</a></sup> &nbsp;105. Meant to express the stately march and sounding energy of 
 Dryden's rhimes.
<br><a id="p1:p19:n18"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p19:an18">18</a></sup> &nbsp;106. "Hast thou clothed his neck with thunder?"<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Job, xxxix. 19.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p20" class="page"><div class="center"><em>20</em></div><br>Scatters from her <a name="P_V_109"></a><a href="#P_V_109n">pictured urn</a><br>
Thoughts, that breathe, and words, that burn.<a id="p1:p20:an19"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p20:n19">19</a></sup><br>
But ah! 'tis heard no more——<a id="p1:p20:an20"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p20:n20">20</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Oh! Lyre divine, what daring Spirit<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Wakes thee now? tho' he inherit<br>
Nor the pride, nor ample pinion,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; That the Theban Eagle bear<a id="p1:p20:an21"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p20:n21">21</a></sup><br>
Sailing with supreme dominion<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Thro' the azure deep of air;<br>
<a name="P_V_118"></a><a href="#P_V_118n">Yet oft before his infant eyes would run</a><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Such <a name="P_V_119"></a><a href="#P_V_119n">forms</a>, as glitter in the Muse's ray<br>
With orient hues, unborrowed of the Sun;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_V_121-122"></a><a href="#P_V_121-122n">Yet shall he mount</a>, and keep his distant way<br>
<a href="#P_V_122n2">Beyond the limits</a> of a <a name="P_V_122"></a><a href="#P_V_122n">vulgar</a> fate,<br>
<a name="P_V_123"></a><a href="#P_V_123n">Beneath the Good how far—but far above the Great.</a>
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p20:n19"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p20:an19">19</a></sup> &nbsp;110. "Words, that weep, and tears, that speak."<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Cowley.
<br><a id="p1:p20:n20"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p20:an20">20</a></sup> &nbsp;111. We have had in our language no other odes of the sublime kind, 
 than that of Dryden on St. Cecilia's Day; for Cowley (who had 
 his merit) yet wanted judgment, style, and  harmony, for such 
 a task. That of Pope is not worthy of so great a man. Mr. 
 Mason indeed of late days has touched the true chords, and with 
 a masterly hand, in some of his Choruses,—above all in the 
 last of Caractacus:<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
 Hark! heard ye not yon footstep dread? etc.
<br><a id="p1:p20:n21"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p20:an21">21</a></sup> &nbsp;115. <i>Διός προς
 δρνιχα θείον,
 Olymp.</i> ii. Pindar compares himself to that bird, and his enemies
 to ravens that croak and clamour in vain below, while it pursues its
 flight, regardless of their noise. 
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p21" class="page"><div class="center"><em>21</em></div><br><div class="center"><a name="P_VI_0"></a><a href="#P_VI_0n">VI.</a><br><br>
THE BARD.<br><br>
<div class="small">A PINDARIC ODE.</div></div>
<p>The following Ode is founded on a tradition current in Wales, that 
Edward the First, when he completed the conquest of that country, ordered 
all the bards that fell into his hands to be put to death.</p>
<p class="center">I. 1.</p>
<a name="P_VI_1"></a>&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Ruin seize thee, ruthless King!<br>
'Confusion on thy banners wait,<br>
'Though fanned by Conquest's crimson wing<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'They mock the air with idle state.<a id="p1:p21:an1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p21:n1">1</a></sup><br>
'Helm, nor hauberk's twisted mail,<a id="p1:p21:an2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p21:n2">2</a></sup><br>
'Nor even thy virtues, Tyrant, shall avail<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'To save thy secret soul from nightly fears,<br>
<a name="P_VI_8"></a>&nbsp; &nbsp; 'From Cambria's curse, from Cambria's tears!'<br><br>
Such were the sounds, that o'er the crested pride<a id="p1:p21:an3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p21:n3">3</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Of the first Edward scattered wild dismay,
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p21:n1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p21:an1">1</a></sup> &nbsp;4. "Mocking the air with colours idly spread."<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Shakespeare's <i>King John,</i> v. 1.
<br><a id="p1:p21:n2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p21:an2">2</a></sup> &nbsp;5. The hauberk was a texture of steel ringlets, or rings interwoven, 
 forming a coat of mail, that sat close to the body, and adapted 
 itself to every motion.
<br><a id="p1:p21:n3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p21:an3">3</a></sup> &nbsp;9. "The crested adder's pride"<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Dryden, <i>Indian Queen.</i>
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p22" class="page"><div class="center"><em>22</em></div><br>As down the steep of Snowdon's <a name="P_VI_11"></a><a href="#P_VI_11n">shaggy</a> side<a id="p1:p22:an4"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p22:n4">4</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; He wound with toilsome march his long array.<br>
Stout Glo'ster stood aghast in speechless trance;<a id="p1:p22:an5"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p22:n5">5</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'To arms!' cried Mortimer, and couched his quivering lance.<a id="p1:p22:an6"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p22:n6">6</a></sup><br>
<p class="center">I. 2.</p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; On a rock, whose haughty brow,<br>
Frowns o'er <a name="P_VI_16"></a><a href="#P_VI_16n">old Conway's</a> foaming flood,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Robed in the sable garb of woe,<br>
<a name="P_VI_18"></a>With haggard eyes the Poet stood;
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p22:n4"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p22:an4">4</a></sup> &nbsp;11. <i>Snowdon</i> was a name given by the Saxons to that mountainous 
 tract which the Welsh themselves call <i>Craigian-eryri;</i> it 
 included all the highlands of Caernarvonshire and Merionethshire, 
 as far east as the river Conway. R. Hygden, speaking of the castle 
 of Conway built by King Edward the First, says, "Ad ortum 
 amnis Conway ad clivum montis Erery;" and Matthew of 
 Westminster (ad ann. 1283), "Apud Aberconway ad pedes montis 
 Snowdoniae fecit erigi castrum forte."
<br><a id="p1:p22:n5"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p22:an5">5</a></sup> &nbsp;13. Gilbert de Clare, surnamed the Red, Earl of Gloucester and Hertford, 
 son-in-law to King Edward.
<br><a id="p1:p22:n6"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p22:an6">6</a></sup> &nbsp;14. Edmond de Mortimer, Lord of Wigmore. They both were 
 <i>Lords-Marchers,</i> whose lands lay on the borders of Wales, 
 and probably accompanied the king in this expedition.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p23" class="page"><div class="center"><em>23</em></div><br>(Loose his beard, and hoary hair<a id="p1:p23:an7"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p23:n7">7</a></sup><br>
Streamed, like a meteor, to the troubled air)<a id="p1:p23:an8"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p23:n8">8</a></sup><br>
<a name="P_VI_21"></a>And with a Master's hand, and Prophet's fire,<br>
Struck the deep sorrows of his lyre.<br><br>
<a name="P_VI_23"></a>&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Hark, how each giant-oak, and desert cave,<br>
'Sighs to the torrent's awful voice beneath!<br>
'O'er thee, oh King! their hundred arms they wave,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Revenge on thee in hoarser murmurs breathe;<br>
'Vocal no more, since Cambria's fatal day,<br>
'To <a name="P_VI_28"></a><a href="#P_VI_28n">high-born Hoel's</a> harp, or <a href="#P_VI_28n2">soft Llewellyn's</a> lay.<br>
<p class="center">I. 3.</p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 'Cold is <a name="P_VI_29"></a><a href="#P_VI_29n">Cadwallo's</a> tongue,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_VI_30"></a><a href="#P_VI_30n">'That hushed the stormy main</a>;<br>
'Brave <a name="P_VI_31"></a><a href="#P_VI_29n">Urien</a> sleeps upon his craggy bed;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Mountains, ye mourn in vain<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; '<a name="P_VI_33"></a><a href="#P_VI_33n">Modred</a>, whose magic song<br>
'Made huge <a name="P_VI_34"></a><a href="#P_VI_34n">Plinlimmon</a> bow his <a href="#P_VI_34n2">cloud-topped</a> head.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'On dreary <a name="P_VI_35"></a><a href="#P_VI_35n">Arvon's</a> shore <a href="#P_VI_35n2">they</a> lie,<a id="p1:p23:an9"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p23:n9">9</a></sup><br>
'Smeared with gore, and ghastly pale;<br>
'Far, far aloof th' affrighted ravens sail;
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p23:n7"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p23:an7">7</a></sup> &nbsp;[p. 22] 19. The image was taken from a well-known picture of Raphael, 
 representing the Supreme Being in the vision of Ezekiel. There 
 are two of these paintings (both believed original), one at 
 Florence, the other at Paris.
<br><a id="p1:p23:n8"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p23:an8">8</a></sup> &nbsp;20. "Shone, like a meteor, streaming to the wind."<br>
 Milton's <i>Paradise Lost,</i> i. 537.
<br><a id="p1:p23:n9"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p23:an9">9</a></sup> &nbsp;35. The shores of Caernarvonshire opposite to the isle of Anglesey.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p24" class="page"><div class="center"><em>24</em></div><br>&nbsp; &nbsp; 'The famished Eagle screams, and passes by.<a id="p1:p24:an10"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p24:n10">10</a></sup><br>
'Dear lost companions of my tuneful art,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Dear, as the light that visits these sad eyes,<a id="p1:p24:an11"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p24:n11">11</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Dear, as the ruddy drops that warm my heart,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Ye died amidst your dying country's cries—<br>
'No more I weep. They do not sleep.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'On yonder cliffs, a grisly band,<br>
'I see them sit, they linger yet,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Avengers of their native land;<br>
'With me in dreadful harmony they join,<br>
<a name="P_VI_48"></a>'And weave with bloody hands the tissue of thy line.'<a id="p1:p24:an12"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p24:n12">12</a></sup><br>
<p class="center">II. 1.</p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_VI_49"></a><a href="#P_VI_49n">"Weave the warp,</a> and weave the woof,<br>
"The winding-sheet of Edward's race.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "Give ample room, and verge enough
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p24:n10"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p24:an10">10</a></sup> &nbsp;38. Cambden and others observe, that eagles used annually to build 
 their aerie among the rocks of Snowdon, which from thence (as 
 some think) were named by the Welsh <i>Craigian eryri,</i> or the 
 crags of the eagles. At this day (I am told) the highest point of 
 Snowdon is called <i>the eagle's nest.</i> That bird is certainly 
 no stranger to this island, as the Scots, and the people of 
 Cumberland, Westmoreland, etc., can testify; it even has built 
 its nest in the Peak of Derbyshire. (See Willoughby's 
 <i>Ornithol.</i>, published by Ray.)
<br><a id="p1:p24:n11"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p24:an11">11</a></sup> &nbsp;40. "As dear to me as are the ruddy drops<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;That visit my sad heart."—<i>Julius Caesar,</i> ii. 1.
<br><a id="p1:p24:n12"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p24:an12">12</a></sup> &nbsp;48. See the Norwegian Ode that follows.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p25" class="page"><div class="center"><em>25</em></div><br>"The characters of hell to trace.<br>
"Mark the year, and mark the night,<br>
"When Severn shall re-echo with affright<a id="p1:p25:an13"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p25:n13">13</a></sup><br>
"The shrieks of death, thro' <a name="P_VI_55"></a><a href="#P_VI_55n">Berkley's</a> roofs that ring,<br>
"<a name="P_VI_56"></a><a href="#P_VI_56n">Shrieks</a> of an <a href="#P_VI_56n2">agonizing King!</a><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "She-Wolf of France, with unrelenting fangs,<a id="p1:p25:an14"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p25:n14">14</a></sup><br>
"That tear'st the bowels of thy mangled Mate,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "From thee be born, who o'er thy country hangs<a id="p1:p25:an15"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p25:n15">15</a></sup><br>
"The scourge of Heaven. What Terrors round him wait!<br>
"Amazement in his van, with Flight combined,<br>
"And sorrow's faded form, and solitude behind.<br>
<p class="center">II. 2.</p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "Mighty <a name="P_VI_63"></a><a href="#P_VI_63n">Victor</a>, mighty Lord!<br>
"Low on <a name="P_VI_64"></a><a href="#P_VI_64n">his</a> funeral couch he lies!<a id="p1:p25:an16"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p25:n16">16</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "<a name="P_VI_65"></a><a href="#P_VI_65n">No</a> pitying heart, <a href="#P_VI_65n">no</a> eye, afford<br>
"A tear to grace his obsequies.
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p25:n13"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p25:an13">13</a></sup> &nbsp;54. Edward the Second, cruelly butchered in Berkley-Castle.
<br><a id="p1:p25:n14"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p25:an14">14</a></sup> &nbsp;57. Isabel of France, Edward the Second's adulterous Queen.
<br><a id="p1:p25:n15"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p25:an15">15</a></sup> &nbsp;59. Triumphs of Edward the Third in France.
<br><a id="p1:p25:n16"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p25:an16">16</a></sup> &nbsp;64. Death of that King, abandoned by his Children, and even robbed 
 in his last moments by his Courtiers and his Mistress.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p26" class="page"><div class="center"><em>26</em></div><br>&nbsp; &nbsp; "Is the sable Warrior fled?<a id="p1:p26:an17"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p26:n17">17</a></sup><br>
"Thy son is gone. He rests among the Dead.<br>
<a name="P_VI_69"></a><a href="#P_VI_69n">"The Swarm</a>, <a href="#P_VI_69n2">that in thy noon-tide beam were born?</a><br>
"Gone to salute the rising <a name="P_VI_70"></a><a href="#P_VI_70n">Morn</a>.<br>
<a name="P_VI_71"></a><a href="#P_VI_71n">"Fair laughs the Morn</a>, and <a name="P_VI_71-76"></a><a href="#P_VI_71-76n">soft the Zephyr blows</a>,<a id="p1:p26:an18"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p26:n18">18</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "While proudly riding o'er the azure realm<br>
"In gallant trim the gilded Vessel goes;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "Youth on the prow, and Pleasure at the helm;<br>
"Regardless of the <a name="P_VI_75"></a><a href="#P_VI_75n">sweeping Whirlwind's sway</a>,<br>
"That, hushed in grim repose, expects his evening-prey.<br>
<p class="center">II. 3.</p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "Fill high the sparkling bowl,<a id="p1:p26:an19"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p26:n19">19</a></sup><br>
"The rich repast prepare,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "Reft of a crown, he yet may share the feast;<br>
"Close by the regal chair<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "Fell Thirst and Famine scowl
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p26:n17"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p26:an17">17</a></sup> &nbsp;67. Edward, the Black Prince, dead some time before his Father.
<br><a id="p1:p26:n18"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p26:an18">18</a></sup> &nbsp;71. Magnificence of Richard the Second's reign. See Froissard and 
 other contemporary writers.
<br><a id="p1:p26:n19"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p26:an19">19</a></sup> &nbsp;77. Richard the Second (as we are told by Archbishop Scroop, and the 
 confederate Lords in their manifesto, by Thomas of Walsingham, 
 and all the older Writers) was starved to death. The story of his 
 assassination by Sir Piers of Exon, is of much later date.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p27" class="page"><div class="center"><em>27</em></div><br>&nbsp; &nbsp; "<a name="P_VI_82"></a><a href="#P_VI_82n">A baleful smile</a> upon their baffled Guest.<br>
"Heard ye the din of battle bray,<a id="p1:p27:an20"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p27:n20">20</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "Lance to lance, and horse to horse?<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "Long Years of havoc urge their destined course,<br>
"And thro' the kindred squadrons mow their way.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "<a name="P_VI_87"></a><a href="#P_VI_87n">Ye</a> Towers of Julius, London's lasting shame,<a id="p1:p27:an21"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p27:n21">21</a></sup><br>
"With many a foul and midnight murther fed,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "Revere his Consort's faith, his Father's<a id="p1:p27:an*"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p27:n*">*</a></sup> fame,<a id="p1:p27:an22"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p27:n22">22</a></sup><br>
"And spare the meek Usurper's <a name="P_VI_90"></a><a href="#P_VI_90n">holy</a> head.<a id="p1:p27:an23"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p27:n23">23</a></sup><br>
<a name="P_VI_91-94"></a><a href="#P_VI_91-94n">"Above, below,</a> the rose of snow,<a id="p1:p27:an24"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p27:n24">24</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "Twined with her blushing foe, we spread;<br>
"The bristled Boar in infant-gore<a id="p1:p27:an25"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p27:n25">25</a></sup>
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p27:n20"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p27:an20">20</a></sup> &nbsp;83. Ruinous civil wars of York and Lancaster.
<br><a id="p1:p27:n21"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p27:an21">21</a></sup> &nbsp;87. Henry the Sixth, George Duke of Clarence, Edward the Fifth, 
 Richard Duke of York, etc., believed to be murthered secretly 
 in the Tower of London. The oldest part of that structure is 
 vulgarly attributed to Julius Caesar.
<br><a id="p1:p27:n22"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p27:an22">22</a></sup> &nbsp;89. Margaret of Anjou, a woman of heroic spirit, who struggled hard 
 to save her Husband and her Crown.
<br><a id="p1:p27:n*"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p27:an*">*</a></sup> &nbsp;Henry the Fifth.
<br><a id="p1:p27:n23"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p27:an23">23</a></sup> &nbsp;90. Henry the Sixth very near being canonized. The line of Lancaster 
 had no right of inheritance to the Crown.
<br><a id="p1:p27:n24"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p27:an24">24</a></sup> &nbsp;91. The white and red roses, devices of York and Lancaster.
<br><a id="p1:p27:n25"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p27:an25">25</a></sup> &nbsp;93. The silver Boar was the badge of Richard the [p. 28] Third; whence 
 he was usually known in his own time by the name of <i>the Boar.</i>
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p28" class="page"><div class="center"><em>28</em></div><br>&nbsp; &nbsp; "Wallows beneath the thorny shade.<br>
"Now, Brothers, bending o'er th' accursed loom<br>
"Stamp we our vengeance deep, and ratify his doom.<br>
<p class="center">III. 1.</p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "Edward, lo! to sudden fate<br>
"(Weave we the woof. The thread is spun.)<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_VI_99"></a><a href="#P_VI_99n">"Half of thy heart</a> we consecrate.<a id="p1:p28:an26"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p28:n26">26</a></sup><br>
<a name="P_VI_100"></a>"(The web is wove. The work is done.)"<br><br>
'Stay, oh stay! nor <a name="P_VI_101"></a><a href="#P_VI_101n">thus</a> forlorn<br>
'Leave <a name="P_VI_102"></a><a href="#P_VI_102n">me unblessed, unpitied, here</a> to mourn;<br>
'In yon bright <a name="P_VI_103"></a><a href="#P_VI_103n">track</a>, that fires the western skies,<br>
'They <a name="P_VI_104"></a><a href="#P_VI_104n">melt</a>, they vanish from my eyes.<br>
<a name="P_VI_105-106"></a><a href="#P_VI_105-106n">'But oh! what</a> <a name="P_VI_105"></a><a href="#P_VI_105n">solemn scenes</a> on Snowdon's height<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Descending slow their <a name="P_VI_106"></a><a href="#P_VI_106n">glitt'ring</a> skirts unroll?<br>
<a name="P_VI_107"></a><a href="#P_VI_107n">'Visions of glory</a>, spare my aching sight,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Ye <a name="P_VI_108"></a><a href="#P_VI_108n">unborn Ages</a>, crowd not on my soul!
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p28:n26"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p28:an26">26</a></sup> &nbsp;99. Eleanor of Castile died a few years after the conquest of 
 Wales. The heroic proof she gave of her affection for her Lord 
 is well known. The monuments of his regret and sorrow for the 
 loss of her, are still to be seen at Northampton, Geddington, 
 Waltham, and other places.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p29" class="page"><div class="center"><em>29</em></div><br><a name="P_VI_109-110"></a><a href="#P_VI_109-110n">'No more</a> <a name="P_VI_109"></a><a href="#P_VI_109n">our long-lost Arthur</a> we bewail.<a id="p1:p29:an27"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p29:n27">27</a></sup><br>
'All hail, ye <a name="P_VI_110"></a><a href="#P_VI_110n">genuine</a> Kings, <a name="P_VI_110_116"></a><a href="#P_VI_110_116n">Britannia's Issue</a>, hail!<a id="p1:p29:an28"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p29:n28">28</a></sup><br>
<p class="center">III. 2.</p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_VI_111-112"></a><a href="#P_VI_111-112n">'Girt with many a Baron bold<br>
'Sublime their starry fronts they rear;</a><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'And gorgeous Dames, and Statesmen old<br>
'In bearded majesty, appear.<br>
<a name="P_VI_115-118"></a><a href="#P_VI_115-118n">'In the midst</a> a Form divine!<br>
'Her eye proclaims her <a href="#P_VI_110_116n">of the Briton-Line</a>;<br>
<a name="P_VI_117"></a><a href="#P_VI_117n">'Her lion-port, her</a> awe commanding face,<a id="p1:p29:an29"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p29:n29">29</a></sup><br>
'Attempered sweet to virgin-grace.<br>
'What strings symphonious tremble in the air,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'What strains of vocal transport round her play!<br>
'Hear from the grave, great Taliessin, hear;<a id="p1:p29:an30"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p29:n30">30</a></sup>
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p29:n27"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p29:an27">27</a></sup> &nbsp;109. It was the common belief of the Welsh nation, that King 
 Arthur was still alive in Fairy-Land, and should return again 
 to reign over Britain.
<br><a id="p1:p29:n28"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p29:an28">28</a></sup> &nbsp;110. Accession of the Line of Tudor.—[<i>Gray,</i> Ed. 1757.]
 Both Merlin and Taliessin had prophesied, that the Welsh should 
 regain their sovereignty over this island; which seemed to be 
 accomplished in the House of Tudor.
<br><a id="p1:p29:n29"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p29:an29">29</a></sup> &nbsp;117. Speed, relating an audience given by Queen Elizabeth to Paul 
 Dzialinski, ambassador of Poland, says: "And thus she, 
 lion-like rising, daunted the malapert Orator no less with her 
 stately port and majestical deporture, than with the tartness of 
 her princely cheeks."
<br><a id="p1:p29:n30"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p29:an30">30</a></sup> &nbsp;121. Taliessin, Chief of the Bards, flourished in the VIth century.
 His works are still preserved, and [p. 30] his memory held in high 
 veneration among his countrymen.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p30" class="page"><div class="center"><em>30</em></div><br>&nbsp; &nbsp; 'They breathe a soul to animate thy clay.<br>
'Bright Rapture calls, and <a name="P_VI_123"></a><a href="#P_VI_123n">soaring, as she sings</a>,<br>
'Waves in the eye of Heaven her many-coloured wings.<br>
<p class="center">III. 3.</p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 'The verse adorn again<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Fierce War, and faithful Love,<a id="p1:p30:an31"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p30:n31">31</a></sup><br>
'And Truth severe, by fairy Fiction drest.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'In buskined measures move<a id="p1:p30:an32"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p30:n32">32</a></sup><br>
'Pale Grief, and pleasing Pain,<br>
'With Horror, Tyrant of the throbbing breast.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'A Voice as of the Cherub-Choir,<a id="p1:p30:an33"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p30:n33">33</a></sup><br>
'Gales from blooming Eden bear;<br>
'And distant <a name="P_VI_133"></a><a href="#P_VI_133n">warblings</a> lessen on my ear,<a id="p1:p30:an34"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p30:n34">34</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'That lost in long futurity expire.<br>
'Fond impious Man, think'st thou, yon sanguine cloud,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Raised by thy breath, has quenched the Orb of day?<br>
'To-morrow he <a name="P_VI_137"></a><a href="#P_VI_137n">repairs</a> <a href="#P_VI_137n2">the golden flood</a>,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'And warms the nations with redoubled ray.<br>
'Enough for me. <a name="P_VI_139-140"></a><a href="#P_VI_139-140n">With joy I see</a><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'The different doom our Fates assign.
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p30:n31"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p30:an31">31</a></sup> &nbsp;126. "Fierce wars and faithful loves shall moralize my 
 song."—Spenser, <i>Proeme to the Fairy Queen.</i>
<br><a id="p1:p30:n32"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p30:an32">32</a></sup> &nbsp;128. Shakespeare.
<br><a id="p1:p30:n33"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p30:an33">33</a></sup> &nbsp;131. Milton.
<br><a id="p1:p30:n34"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p30:an34">34</a></sup> &nbsp;133. The succession of Poets after Milton's time.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p31" class="page"><div class="center"><em>31</em></div><br>'Be thine Despair, and sceptred Care,<br>
<a name="P_VI_142"></a>&nbsp; &nbsp; 'To triumph, and to die, are mine.'<br><br>
He spoke, and headlong from the mountain's height<br>
Deep in the roaring tide he plunged to endless night.
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_VII_0"></a><a href="#P_VII_0n">VII.</a><br><br>
THE FATAL SISTERS.<br><br>
<div class="small">AN ODE,<br><br>
(FROM THE NORSE TONGUE,)<br><br>
In the Orcades of Thormodus Torfseus; Hafniae,<br>
1697, folio; and also in Bartholinus.<br><br> 
</div></div><div class="small">
&nbsp; &nbsp; Advertisement.—The Author once had thoughts (in concert 
with a Friend) of giving <i>the History of English Poetry.</i> In the 
Introduction to it he meant to have produced some specimens of the Style 
that reigned in ancient times among the neighbouring nations, or those who 
had subdued the greater part of this Island, and were our Progenitors; the 
following three Imitations made a part of them. He has long since dropped 
his design, especially after he heard, that it was already in the hands of 
a Person well qualified to do it justice, both by his taste, and his 
researches into antiquity.—<i>Gray,</i> 1768.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Preface.—In the Eleventh Century, <i>Sigurd,</i> Earl 
of the Orkney-Islands, went with a fleet of ships and a considerable body 
of troops into Ireland, to the assistance of <i>Sictryg with the silken 
beard,</i> who was then making war on his father-in-law <i>Brian,</i> king of
</div>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p32" class="page"><div class="center"><em>32</em></div><br><div class="small">
Dublin; the Earl and all his forces were cut to pieces, and <i>Sictryg</i> 
was in danger of a total defeat; but the enemy had a greater loss by
the death of <i>Brian</i> their king, who fell in the action. On Christmas
Day (the day of the battle), a Native of <i>Caithness</i> in
Scotland saw at a distance a number of persons on horseback riding full
speed towards a hill, and seeming to enter into it. Curiosity led him to
follow them, till looking through an opening in the rocks, he saw
twelve gigantic figures resembling women; they were all employed about a
loom; and as they wove, they sung the following dreadful Song; which, when
they had finished, they tore the web into twelve pieces, and (each
taking her portion) galloped six to the North, and as many to the
South.—<i>Gray,</i> 1768. 
</div><br>
Now the storm begins to lower<a id="p1:p32:an1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p32:n1">1</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; (Haste, <a name="P_VII_2"></a><a href="#P_VII_2n">the loom</a> of Hell prepare,)<br>
Iron-sleet of arrowy shower<a id="p1:p32:an2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p32:n2">2</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Hurtles in the darkened air.<a id="p1:p32:an3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p32:n3">3</a></sup>
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p32:n1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p32:an1">1</a></sup> &nbsp;1. The <i>Valkyriur</i> were female Divinities, servants of
 <i>Odin</i> (or <i>Woden</i>), in the Gothic mythology. Their name
 signifies <i>Chusers of the slain.</i> They were mounted on swift
 horses, with drawn swords in their hands; and in the throng of battle
 selected such as were destined to slaughter, and conducted them to
 <i>Valhalla,</i> the hall of <i>Odin,</i> or paradise of the Brave;
 where they attended the banquet, and served the departed Heroes with
 horns of mead and ale.
<br><a id="p1:p32:n2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p32:an2">2</a></sup> &nbsp;3. "How quick they wheeled, and, flying, behind them shot<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Sharp sleet of arrowy showers."<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Milton's <i>Par. Regained,</i> iii. 323, 324.
<br><a id="p1:p32:n3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p32:an3">3</a></sup> &nbsp;4. "The noise of battle hurtled in the air."<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Shakespeare, <i>Julius Caesar,</i> ii. 2
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p33" class="page"><div class="center"><em>33</em></div><br>Glitt'ring lances are the loom,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Where the dusky warp we strain,<br>
Weaving many a soldier's doom,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Orkney's</i> woe, and <i>Randver's</i> bane.<br><br>
See the grisly texture grow,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; ('Tis of human entrails made)<br>
And the weights, that play below,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Each a gasping warrior's head.<br><br>
Shafts for shuttles, dipt in gore,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Shoot the trembling cords along.<br>
<a name="P_VII_15"></a><a href="#P_VII_15n">Sword</a>, that once a monarch bore,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Keep the tissue close and strong.<br><br>
<a name="P_VII_17-18"></a><a href="#P_VII_17-18n"><i>Mista</i></a> <a name="P_VII_17"></a><a href="#P_VII_17n">black</a>, terrific maid,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a href="#P_VII_18n"><i>Sangrida</i></a>, and <i>Hilda,</i> <a name="P_VII_18"></a><a href="#P_VII_18n">see</a>,<br>
Join the wayward work to aid;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Tis the woof of victory.<br><br>
Ere the ruddy sun be set,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Pikes must shiver, javelins sing,<br>
<a name="P_VII_23"></a><a href="#P_VII_23n">Blade</a> with clattering buckler meet,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Hauberk crash, and helmet ring.<br><br>
(Weave the crimson web of war)<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Let us go, and let us fly,<br>
Where our friends the conflict share,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Where they <a name="P_VII_28"></a><a href="#P_VII_28n">triumph</a>, where they die.<br><br>
As the paths of fate we tread,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Wading through th' ensanguined field;
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p34" class="page"><div class="center"><em>34</em></div><br><a name="P_VII_31"></a><a href="#P_VII_31n"><i>Gondula,</i> and <i>Geira</i></a>, spread<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; O'er the youthful King your shield.<br><br>
We the reins to <a name="P_VII_33"></a><a href="#P_VII_33n">slaughter</a> give,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Ours to kill, and ours to spare;<br>
Spite of danger he shall live.<br>
<a name="P_VII_36"></a>&nbsp; &nbsp; (Weave the crimson web of war.)<br><br>
<a name="P_VII_37"></a>They, whom once the <a name="P_VII_37-40"></a><a href="#P_VII_37-40n">desert beach</a><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Pent within its bleak domain,<br>
Soon their ample sway shall stretch<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; O'er the plenty of the plain.<br><br>
Low the dauntless Earl is laid,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Gored with many a gaping wound;<br>
Fate demands a nobler head;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Soon a King <a name="P_VII_44"></a><a href="#P_VII_44n">shall</a> bite the ground.<br><br>
Long <a name="P_VII_45"></a><a href="#P_VII_45n">his</a> loss shall Eirin weep,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Ne'er again his likeness see;<br>
Long her strains in sorrow steep,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Strains of immortality!<br><br>
Horror covers all the heath,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Clouds of carnage <a name="P_VII_50"></a><a href="#P_VII_50n">blot</a> the sun.<br>
Sisters, weave the web of death;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Sisters, cease, the work is done.<br><br>
Hail the task, and hail the hands!<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Songs of joy and triumph sing
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p35" class="page"><div class="center"><em>35</em></div><br>Joy to the victorious bands;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Triumph to the younger King.<br><br>
Mortal, thou that hear'st the tale,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Learn the tenor of our song.<br>
<a name="P_VII_59-60"></a><a href="#P_VII_59-60n">Scotland, thro'</a> each <a name="P_VII_59"></a><a href="#P_VII_59n">winding</a> vale<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Far and wide the notes prolong.<br><br>
<a name="P_VII_61-64"></a><a href="#P_VII_61-64n">Sisters, hence</a> with spurs of speed;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Each her thundering faulchion wield;<br>
Each bestride her sable steed.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Hurry, hurry to the field.
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_VIII_0"></a><a href="#P_VIII_0n">VIII.</a><br><br>
THE DESCENT OF ODIN.<br><br>
<div class="small">AN ODE<br><br>
FROM THE NORSE TONGUE,<br><br>
In Bartholinus, de causis contemnendae mortis;<br>
Hafniae, 1689.<br><br>
</div></div>
Uprose the King of Men with speed,<br>
And saddled strait his coal-black steed;<br>
Down the yawning steep he rode,<br>
That leads to <a name="P_VIII_4"></a><a href="#P_VIII_4n">Hela's</a> drear abode.<a id="p1:p35:an1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p35:n1">1</a></sup>
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p35:n1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p35:an1">1</a></sup> &nbsp;4. Niflheimr, the hell of the Gothic nations, consisted of nine 
 worlds, to which were devoted all such as died of sickness, old-age, 
 or by any other [p. 36] means than in battle. Over it presided Hela, 
 the Goddess of Death.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p36" class="page"><div class="center"><em>36</em></div><br>Him the <a name="P_VIII_5"></a><a href="#P_VIII_5n">Dog of Darkness</a> spied,<br>
His shaggy throat he opened wide,<br>
While from his jaws, with carnage filled,<br>
Foam and human gore distilled;<br>
Hoarse he bays with hideous din,<br>
Eyes that glow, and fangs that grin;<br>
And long pursues, with <a name="P_VIII_11"></a><a href="#P_VIII_11n">fruitless</a> yell,<br>
The father of the powerful spell.<br>
Onward still his way he takes,<br>
(The groaning earth beneath him <a name="P_VIII_14"></a><a href="#P_VIII_14n">shakes</a>,)<br>
Till full before his fearless eyes<br>
The portals nine of hell arise.<br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Right against the eastern gate,<br>
By the moss-grown pile he sate;<br>
Where long of yore to sleep was laid<br>
The dust of the prophetic Maid.<br>
Facing to the northern clime,<br>
Thrice he traced the <a name="P_VIII_22"></a><a href="#P_VIII_22n">runic rhyme</a>;<br>
Thrice pronounced, in <a name="P_VIII_23"></a><a href="#P_VIII_23n">accents</a> dread,<br>
The thrilling <a name="P_VIII_24"></a><a href="#P_VIII_24n">verse that wakes the dead</a>;<br>
Till from out the hollow ground<br>
Slowly breathed a sullen sound.<br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Prophetess.</i> What <a name="P_VIII_27"></a><a href="#P_VIII_27n">call</a> unkown, what charms presume<br>
To break the quiet of the tomb?
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p37" class="page"><div class="center"><em>37</em></div><br>Who thus afflicts <a name="P_VIII_29"></a><a href="#P_VIII_29n">my troubled</a> sprite,<br>
And drags me from the realms of night?<br>
Long on these mould'ring bones have beat<br>
The winter's snow, the summer's heat,<br>
The drenching dews, and driving rain!<br>
Let me, let me sleep again.<br>
Who is <a name="P_VIII_35"></a><a href="#P_VIII_35n">he</a>, with voice unblest,<br>
That calls me from the bed of rest?<br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Odin.</i> A Traveller, to thee unknown,<br>
Is he that calls, a Warrior's son.<br>
Thou the deeds of light shalt know;<br>
<a name="P_VIII_40"></a><a href="#P_VIII_40n">Tell me what is done below</a>,<br>
For whom <a name="P_VIII_41"></a><a href="#P_VIII_41n">yon</a> glitt'ring board is spread,<br>
Drest for whom yon golden bed.<br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Pr.</i> Mantling in the goblet see<br>
The pure beverage of the bee,<br>
O'er it hangs the shield of gold;<br>
'Tis the drink of <i>Balder</i> bold;<br>
<i>Balder's</i> head to death is given.<br>
Pain can <a name="P_VIII_48"></a><a href="#P_VIII_48n">reach</a> the sons of Heaven!<br>
Unwilling I my lips unclose;<br>
Leave me, leave me to repose.<br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_VIII_51"></a><a href="#P_VIII_51n"><i>0.</i></a> <a name="P_VIII_51-52"></a><a href="#P_VIII_51-52n">Once again my call obey.</a><br>
Prophetess, arise, and say,<br>
What dangers <i>Odin's</i> child await,<br>
Who the Author of his fate.<br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_VIII_55"></a><a href="#P_VIII_55n"><i>Pr.</i> In <i>Hoder's</i> hand the Hero's doom;</a>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p38" class="page"><div class="center"><em>38</em></div><br>His brother sends him to the tomb.<br>
Now my weary lips I close;<br>
Leave me, leave me to repose.<br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>0.</i> <a name="P_VIII_59-60"></a><a href="#P_VIII_59-60n">Prophetess, my spell obey,</a><br>
Once again arise, and say,<br>
<a name="P_VIII_61-62"></a><a href="#P_VIII_61-62n">Who th' Avenger</a> of his guilt,<br>
By whom shall <i>Hoder's</i> blood be spilt.<br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Pr.</i> In the caverns of the west,<br>
By <i>Odin's</i> fierce embrace comprest,<br>
A <a name="P_VIII_65"></a><a href="#P_VIII_65n">wond'rous</a> Boy shall <i>Binda</i> bear,<br>
Who ne'er shall <a name="P_VIII_66"></a><a href="#P_VIII_66n">comb his raven-hair,</a><br>
Nor wash his visage in the stream,<br>
Nor see the sun's departing beam,<br>
Till he on <i>Hoder's</i> corse shall smile<br>
Flaming on the fun'ral pile.<br>
Now my weary lips I close;<br>
Leave me, leave me to repose.<br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>0.</i> Yet a while my call obey.<br>
Prophetess, <a name="P_VIII_74"></a><a href="#P_VIII_74n">awake</a>, and say,<br>
<a name="P_VIII_75"></a><a href="#P_VIII_75n">What Virgins these</a>, in speechless woe,<br>
That bend to earth their solemn brow,<br>
<a name="P_VIII_77"></a><a href="#P_VIII_77n">That</a> their <a href="#P_VIII_77n">flaxen</a> tresses tear,<br>
And snowy veils, that float in air.<br>
<a name="P_VIII_79"></a><a href="#P_VIII_79n">Tell me</a> whence their sorrows rose;<br>
Then I leave thee to repose.<br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Pr.</i> Ha! no Traveller art thou,
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p39" class="page"><div class="center"><em>39</em></div><br>King of Men, I know thee now;<br>
<a name="P_VIII_83"></a><a href="#P_VIII_83n">Mightiest of a mighty line—</a><br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>0.</i> No boding Maid of skill divine<br>
Art thou, nor Prophetess of good;<br>
But Mother of the giant-brood!<br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Pr.</i> Hie thee <a name="P_VIII_87"></a><a href="#P_VIII_87n">hence, and</a> boast at home,<br>
That never shall enquirer come<br>
To break my iron-sleep again;<br>
Till <i>Lok</i> <a name="P_VIII_90"></a><a href="#P_VIII_90n">has</a> burst his tenfold chain.<a id="p1:p39:an2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p39:n2">2</a></sup><br>
Never, till substantial Night<br>
<a name="P_VIII_92"></a><a href="#P_VIII_92n">Has reassumed</a> her ancient right;<br>
Till wrapped in flames, in ruin hurled,<br>
Sinks the fabric of the world.
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p39:n2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p39:an2">2</a></sup> &nbsp;90. <i>Lok</i> is the evil Being, who continues in chains till the 
 <i>Twilight of the Gods</i> approaches, when he shall break his 
 bonds; the human race, the stars, and sun, shall disappear; the 
 earth sink in the seas, and fire consume the skies; even Odin 
 himself and his kindred-deities shall perish. For a further 
 explanation of this mythology, see Mallet's <i>Introduction to 
 the History of Denmark,</i> 1755, quarto.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p40" class="page"><div class="center"><em>40</em></div><br><div class="center"><a name="P_IX_0"></a><a href="#P_IX_0n">IX.</a><br><br>
THE TRIUMPHS OF OWEN.<br><br>
<div class="small">A FRAGMENT.<br><br>
From Mr. Evans' Specimens of the Welsh Poetry;<br>
London 1764.<br><br>
</div></div><div class="small">
&nbsp; &nbsp; Advertisement.—Owen succeeded his Father Griffin in 
the Principality of North-Wales, A.D. 1120. This battle was fought near 
forty years afterwards.
</div><br>
Owen's praise demands my song,<br>
Owen swift, and Owen strong;<br>
Fairest flower of Roderic's stem,<br>
Gwyneth's shield, and Britain's gem.<a id="p1:p40:an1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p40:n1">1</a></sup><br>
He nor heaps his brooded stores,<br>
Nor on all profusely pours;<br>
Lord of every regal art,<br>
Liberal hand, and open heart.<br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Big with hosts of mighty name,<br>
<a name="P_IX_10"></a><a href="#P_IX_10n">Squadrons three</a> against him came;<br>
<a name="P_IX_11-14"></a><a href="#P_IX_11-14n">This the force</a> of Eirin hiding,<br>
Side by side as proudly riding,<br>
<a name="P_IX_13"></a><a href="#P_IX_13n">On her shadow</a> long and gay<br>
<a name="P_IX_14-15"></a><a href="#P_IX_14-15n">Lochlin ploughs</a> the watry way;<a id="p1:p40:an2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p40:n2">2</a></sup><br>
There the Norman sails afar<br>
Catch the winds, and join the war;
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p40:n1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p40:an1">1</a></sup> &nbsp;4. North Wales.
<br><a id="p1:p40:n2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p40:an2">2</a></sup> &nbsp;14. Denmark.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p41" class="page"><div class="center"><em>41</em></div><br>Black and huge along they sweep,<br>
Burthens of the angry deep.<br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Dauntless on his native sands<br>
The Dragon-son of Mona stands;<a id="p1:p41:an3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p41:n3">3</a></sup><br>
In glitt'ring arms and glory drest,<br>
High he rears his <a name="P_IX_22"></a><a href="#P_IX_22n">ruby crest</a>.<br>
There the thund'ring strokes begin,<br>
There the press, and there the din;<br>
<a name="P_IX_25"></a><a href="#P_IX_25n">Talymalfra's</a> rocky shore<br>
Echoing to the battle's roar.<br>
<a name="P_IX_27"></a><a href="#P_IX_27n">Where his glowing eye-balls turn,</a><br>
Thousand banners round him burn.<br>
<a name="P_IX_29"></a>Where he points his purple spear,<br>
Hasty, hasty Rout is there,<br>
<a name="P_IX_30-31"></a><a href="#P_IX_30-31n">Marking with indignant eye<br>
Fear</a> to stop, and shame to fly.<br>
There Confusion, Terror's child,<br>
Conflict fierce, and Ruin wild,<br>
Agony, that pants for breath,<br>
Despair and honourable Death.
<p class="center">&nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp;
&nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp;</p>
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p41:n3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p41:an3">3</a></sup> &nbsp;20. The red Dragon is the device of Cadwallader, which all his 
 descendants bore on their banners.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p42" class="page"><div class="center"><em>42</em></div><br><div class="center"><a name="P_X_0"></a><a href="#P_X_0n">X.</a><br><br>
ELEGY<br><br>
<div class="small">WRITTEN IN A</div><br>
COUNTRY CHURCH-YARD.<br><br></div>
<a name="P_X_1"></a><a href="#P_X_1n">The curfew</a> tolls the knell of parting day,<a id="p1:p42:an1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p42:n1">1</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The lowing <a name="P_X_2"></a><a href="#P_X_2n">herd wind</a> slowly o'er the lea,<br>
The ploughman homeward plods his weary way,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And leaves the world to darkness and to me.<br><br>
Now fades the glimmering landscape on the sight,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And <a name="P_X_6"></a><a href="#P_X_6n">all</a> the air a solemn stillness holds,<br>
Save where the beetle wheels his droning flight,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_X_8"></a><a href="#P_X_8n">And</a> drowsy tinklings lull the distant folds;<br><br>
Save that from yonder ivy-mantled tower<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The moping owl does to the moon complain<br>
Of such as, wand'ring near her secret bower,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Molest her ancient solitary reign.
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p42:n1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p42:an1">1</a></sup> &nbsp;1.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;" . . . squilla di lontano<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Che paia 'l giorno pianger, che si muore."<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Dante, <i>Purgat. l.</i> 8.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p43" class="page"><div class="center"><em>43</em></div><br><a name="P_X_13-16"></a><a href="#P_X_13-16n">Beneath those</a> rugged elms, <a name="P_X_13"></a><a href="#P_X_13n">that yew-tree's</a> shade,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_X_14"></a><a href="#P_X_14n">Where heaves the turf in many a mould'ring heap,</a><br>
Each in his narrow cell for ever laid,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The <a name="P_X_16"></a><a href="#P_X_16n">rude</a> Forefathers of the hamlet sleep.<br><br>
<a href="#P_X_17n2">The breezy call</a> of <a name="P_X_17"></a><a href="#P_X_17n">incense-breathing</a> Morn,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The swallow twitt'ring from the straw-built shed,<br>
<a href="#P_X_19n3">The cock's</a> <a name="P_X_19"></a><a href="#P_X_19n">shrill clarion</a>, or <a href="#P_X_19n2">the echoing horn</a>,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; No more shall rouse them from <a name="P_X_20"></a><a href="#P_X_20n">their lowly bed</a>.<br><br>
<a name="P_X_21-24"></a><a href="#P_X_21-24n">For them no more</a> the blazing hearth shall burn,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Or busy housewife <a name="P_X_22"></a><a href="#P_X_22n">ply her evening care</a>;<br>
No children run to lisp their sire's return,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_X_24"></a><a href="#P_X_24n">Or</a> climb his knees the <a href="#P_X_24n">envied</a> kiss to share.<br><br>
Oft did the harvest to their <a name="P_X_25"></a><a href="#P_X_25n">sickle</a> yield,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Their furrow oft <a name="P_X_26"></a><a href="#P_X_26n">the stubborn glebe</a> has broke;<br>
How jocund did they drive their team <a name="P_X_27"></a><a href="#P_X_27n">afield</a>!<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; How bowed the woods beneath their <a name="P_X_28"></a><a href="#P_X_28n">sturdy stroke</a>!<br><br>
Let not Ambition mock their <a name="P_X_29"></a><a href="#P_X_29n">useful</a> toil,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Their <a name="P_X_30"></a><a href="#P_X_30n">homely</a> joys, and destiny obscure;<br>
Nor Grandeur hear, with a disdainful smile,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_X_32"></a><a href="#P_X_32n">The short and simple annals of the poor.</a>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p44" class="page"><div class="center"><em>44</em></div><br><a name="P_X_33-36"></a><a href="#P_X_33-36n">The boast of heraldry</a>, the pomp of power,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And all that beauty, all that wealth e'er gave,<br>
<a name="P_X_35"></a><a href="#P_X_35n">Awaits</a> alike th' inevitable hour.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_X_36"></a><a href="#P_X_36n">The paths of glory lead but to the grave.</a><br><br>
<a name="P_X_37-38"></a><a href="#P_X_37-38n">Nor you, ye Proud,</a> impute to these the fault,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; If Mem'ry o'er their tomb no trophies raise,<br>
Where thro' the long-drawn aisle and fretted vault<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The pealing anthem swells the note of praise.<br><br>
Can storied urn or animated bust<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Back to its mansion call the fleeting breath?<br>
Can Honour's voice <a name="P_X_43"></a><a href="#P_X_43n">provoke</a> the silent dust,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Or Flatt'ry soothe the <a name="P_X_44"></a><a href="#P_X_44n">dull cold</a> ear of Death?<br><br>
Perhaps in this neglected spot is laid<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Some heart once <a name="P_X_46"></a><a href="#P_X_46n">pregnant with celestial fire</a>;<br>
Hands, that  the  <a name="P_X_47"></a><a href="#P_X_47n">rod</a> of empire might have swayed,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Or waked to ecstasy the living lyre.<br><br>
But Knowledge to their eyes her ample page<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Rich with the spoils of time did ne'er unroll;<br>
Chill Penury <a name="P_X_51"></a><a href="#P_X_51n">repressed</a> their noble rage,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And froze the genial current of the soul.<br><br>
<a name="P_X_53-56"></a><a href="#P_X_53-56n">Full many a gem</a>, of purest ray serene,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The dark unfathomed caves of ocean bear;
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p45" class="page"><div class="center"><em>45</em></div><br>Full many a flower is born to blush unseen,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_X_56"></a><a href="#P_X_56n">And waste its sweetness on the desert air</a>.<br><br>
Some village-<a name="P_X_57"></a><a href="#P_X_57n">Hampden</a>, that with dauntless breast<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The little tyrant of his fields withstood;<br>
Some mute inglorious <a name="P_X_59"></a><a href="#P_X_59n">Milton</a> here may rest,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Some <a name="P_X_60"></a><a href="#P_X_60n">Cromwell</a> guiltless of his country's blood.<br><br>
Th' applause of list'ning senates to command,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The threats of pain and ruin to despise,<br>
<a name="P_X_63"></a><a href="#P_X_63n">To scatter plenty</a> o'er a smiling land,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And read their history in a nation's eyes,<br><br>
Their lot forbad; nor circumscribed alone<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Their <a name="P_X_66"></a><a href="#P_X_66n">growing</a> virtues, but their crimes confined;<br>
Forbad to wade through slaughter to a throne,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_X_68"></a><a href="#P_X_68n">And</a> shut the gates of mercy on mankind,<br><br>
The struggling pangs of conscious truth to hide.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; To <a name="P_X_70"></a><a href="#P_X_70n">quench the blushes</a> of <a href="#P_X_70n2">ingenuous</a> shame,<br>
<a name="P_X_71"></a><a href="#P_X_71n">Or heap the shrine</a> of Luxury and Pride<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a href="#P_X_72n2">With</a> <a name="P_X_72"></a><a href="#P_X_72n">incense kindled at the Muse's flame.</a><br><br>
Far from the <a name="P_X_73"></a><a href="#P_X_73n">madding</a> crowd's ignoble strife,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Their sober wishes never <a name="P_X_74"></a><a href="#P_X_74n">learned</a> to stray;<br>
Along the cool sequestered vale of life<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; They kept the <a name="P_X_76"></a><a href="#P_X_76n">noiseless</a> tenor of their way.
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p46" class="page"><div class="center"><em>46</em></div><br>Yet ev'n these bones from insult to protect<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Some frail memorial still erected nigh,<br>
With uncouth <a name="P_X_79"></a><a href="#P_X_79n">rhimes</a> and shapeless sculpture decked,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Implores the passing tribute of a sigh.<br><br>
Their name, their years, <a name="P_X_81"></a><a href="#P_X_81n">spelt by th' unlettered Muse</a>,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The place of fame and <a name="P_X_82"></a><a href="#P_X_82n">elegy</a> supply;<br>
And many a holy text around she strews,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; That teach the rustic moralist to die.<br><br>
<a name="P_X_85-88"></a><a href="#P_X_85-88n">For who,</a> <a name="P_X_85"></a><a href="#P_X_85n">to dumb Forgetfulness a prey,</a><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; This pleasing anxious being e'er resigned,<br>
Left the warm <a name="P_X_87"></a><a href="#P_X_87n">precincts of the cheerful day</a>,<br>
Nor cast one longing ling'ring look behind?<br><br>
<a name="P_X_89-92"></a><a href="#P_X_89-92n">On some fond breast</a> the parting soul relies,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Some pious drops the closing eye requires;<br>
Ev'n from the tomb the voice of Nature cries,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_X_92"></a><a href="#P_X_92n">Ev'n in our ashes</a> <a href="#P_X_92n2">live their wonted fires</a>.<a id="p1:p46:an2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p46:n2">2</a></sup><br><br>
<a name="P_X_93-96"></a><a href="#P_X_93-96n">For thee, who</a> mindful of th' unhonoured Dead<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Dost in these lines their artless tale relate;<br>
If chance, by lonely contemplation led,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Some kindred spirit shall inquire thy fate,
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p46:n2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p46:an2">2</a></sup> &nbsp;92. "Ch' i veggio nel pensier, dolce mio fuoco,<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Fredda una lingua, e due begli occhi chiusi<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Rimaner doppo noi pien di faville."<br>
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Petrarch, <i>Son.</i> 169.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p47" class="page"><div class="center"><em>47</em></div><br>Haply some hoary-headed swain <a name="P_X_97"></a><a href="#P_X_97n">may</a> say,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Oft have we seen him at the <a name="P_X_98"></a><a href="#P_X_98n">peep of dawn</a><br>
<a name="P_X_99-100"></a><a href="#P_X_99-100n">'Brushing with</a> <a href="#P_X_99-100n2">hasty steps the dews away</a><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'To meet the sun upon the upland lawn.<br><br>
<a href="#P_X_101n2">'There</a> at the foot of <a name="P_X_101"></a><a href="#P_X_101n">yonder</a> <a href="#P_X_101n2">nodding</a> beech,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'That wreathes its old fantastic roots so high,<br>
'His <a name="P_X_103"></a><a href="#P_X_103n">listless length</a> at noontide  would he stretch,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'And pore upon the brook that babbles by.<br><br>
<a name="P_X_105-112"></a><a href="#P_X_105-112n">'Hard by</a> <a name="P_X_105"></a><a href="#P_X_105n">yon wood,</a> now smiling as in scorn,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Mutt'ring  his wayward fancies <a name="P_X_106"></a><a href="#P_X_106n">he would</a> rove,<br>
<a href="#P_X_107n2">'Now</a> <a name="P_X_107"></a><a href="#P_X_107n">drooping, woeful wan,</a> like one forlorn,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Or crazed with care, or crossed in hopeless love.<br><br>
'One morn <a name="P_X_109"></a><a href="#P_X_109n">I</a> missed him on the customed hill,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; '<a name="P_X_110"></a><a href="#P_X_110n">Along the heath</a> <a href="#P_X_110n3">and near</a> <a href="#P_X_110n2">his fav'rite tree</a>;<br>
'Another came; nor yet beside the rill,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Nor up the lawn, nor at the wood was he;<br><br>
'The next with dirges <a name="P_X_113"></a><a href="#P_X_113n">due</a> in sad array<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Slow thro' <a name="P_X_114"></a><a href="#P_X_114n">the church-way path</a> we saw him borne.<br>
'Approach and read <a name="P_X_115"></a><a href="#P_X_115n">(for thou can'st read)</a> the <a href="#P_X_115n2">lay</a>,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a href="#P_X_116n2">'Graved</a> <a name="P_X_116"></a><a href="#P_X_116n">on the stone beneath yon aged thorn.'</a>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p48" class="page"><div class="center"><em>48</em></div><br><div class="center"><i>THE EPITAPH.</i><br><br></div>
<i>Here rests his head upon the lap of Earth</i><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_X_118"></a><a href="#P_X_118n"><i>A Youth to Fortune and to Fame unknown.</i></a><br>
<i>Fair <a name="P_X_119"></a><a href="#P_X_119n">Science</a> <a href="#P_X_119n2">frowned not on his humble birth</a>,</i><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>And Melancholy marked him for her own,</i><br><br>
<i>Large was his bounty, and his <a name="P_X_121"></a><a href="#P_X_121n">soul</a> sincere,</i><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Heav'n did a recompence as largely send;</i><br>
<i>He gave to Misery <a name="P_X_123"></a><a href="#P_X_123n">all he had</a>, a tear,</i><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>He gained from Heav'n ('twas all he wished) a friend.</i><br><br> 
<i>No farther seek his merits to disclose,</i><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_X_126-127"></a><a href="#P_X_126-127n"><i>Or draw his frailties from their dread abode,</i><br>
<i>(There they alike in trembling hope repose,)</i></a><a id="p1:p48:an3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p48:n3">3</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>The bosom of his Father and his God.</i>
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XI_0"></a><a href="#P_XI_0n">XI.</a><br><br>
A LONG STORY.<br><br></div>
<a name="P_XI_1"></a><a href="#P_XI_1n">In Britain's Isle, no matter where,</a><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; An ancient <a name="P_XI_2"></a><a href="#P_XI_2n">pile</a> of <a href="#P_XI_2n2">building</a> stands;<br>
The Huntingdons and Hattons there<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Employed the power of Fairy hands
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p48:n3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p48:an3">3</a></sup> &nbsp;127. . . . paventosa speme.—Petrarch, <i>Son.</i> 114
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p49" class="page"><div class="center"><em>49</em></div><br>To raise the ceiling's fretted height,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Each panel in achievements clothing,<br>
Rich windows that exclude the light,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And passages, that lead to nothing.<br><br>
Full oft within the spacious walls,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; When he had fifty winters o'er him,<br>
My grave <a name="P_XI_11"></a><a href="#P_XI_11n">Lord-keeper</a> led the <a href="#P_XI_11n2">brawls</a>;<a id="p1:p49:an1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p49:n1">1</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The seal, and maces, danced before him.<br><br>
His bushy beard, and shoe-strings green,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; His high-crowned hat, and satin-doublet,<br>
Moved the stout heart of England's Queen,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Tho' Pope and Spaniard could not trouble it.<br><br>
What, in the very first beginning!<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Shame of the versifying tribe!<br>
Your Hist'ry whither are you spinning?<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Can you do nothing but describe?<br><br>
A house there is, (and that's enough)<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; From whence one fatal morning issues<br>
A brace of warriors, not in buff,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; But rustling in their silks and tissues.<br><br>
The first came cap-a-pie from France,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Her conqu'ring destiny fulfilling,<br>
Whom meaner beauties eye askance,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And vainly ape her art of killing.<br><br>
The <a name="P_XI_29-31"></a><a href="#P_XI_29-31n">other Amazon</a> kind Heaven<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Had armed with spirit, wit, and satire;
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p49:n1"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p49:an1">1</a></sup> &nbsp;11. Hatton, preferred by Queen Elizabeth for his graceful person and
 fine dancing. 
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p50" class="page"><div class="center"><em>50</em></div><br>But Cobham had the polish given<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And tipped her arrows with good-nature.<br><br>
To celebrate her eyes, her air——<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Coarse panegyrics would but tease her.<br>
<a name="P_XI_35"></a><a href="#P_XI_35n">Melissa</a> is her nom de guerre.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Alas, who would not wish to please her!<br><br>
With bonnet blue and <a name="P_XI_37"></a><a href="#P_XI_37n">capucine</a>,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And aprons long they hid their armour,<br>
And veiled their weapons bright and keen<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; In pity to the country farmer.<br><br>
Fame, in the shape of <a name="P_XI_41"></a><a href="#P_XI_41n">Mr. Purt</a>,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; (By this time all the parish know it)<br>
Had told that thereabouts there lurked<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; A wicked imp they call a Poet,<br><br>
Who prowled the country far and near,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Bewitched the children of the peasants,<br>
Dried up the cows, and lamed the deer,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And sucked the eggs, and killed the pheasants.<br><br>
My Lady heard their joint petition,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Swore by her coronet and ermine,<br>
She'd issue out her <a name="P_XI_51"></a><a href="#P_XI_51n">high commission</a><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; To rid the manor of such vermin.<br><br>
The Heroines undertook the task,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Thro' lanes unknown, o'er stiles they ventured,
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p51" class="page"><div class="center"><em>51</em></div><br>Rapped at the door, nor stayed to ask,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; But <a name="P_XI_56"></a><a href="#P_XI_56n">bounce</a> into the parlour entered.<br><br>
The trembling family they daunt,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; They flirt, they sing, they laugh, they tattle,<br>
Rummage his Mother, pinch his Aunt,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And up stairs in a whirlwind rattle.<br><br>
Each hole and cupboard they explore,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Each creek and cranny of his chamber,<br>
Run hurry-skurry round the floor,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And o'er the bed and tester clamber;<br><br>
Into the drawers and china pry,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Papers and books, a huge imbroglio!<br>
<a name="P_XI_67"></a><a href="#P_XI_67n">Under a tea-cu[p]</a> he might lie,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Or creased, like dogs-ears, in a folio.<br><br>
On the first marching of the troops,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The Muses, hopeless of his pardon,<br>
Conveyed him underneath their hoops<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; To a small closet in the garden.<br><br>
So Rumor says. (Who will, believe.)<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; But that they left the door a-jar,<br>
Where, safe and laughing in his sleeve,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; He heard the distant din of war.<br><br>
Short was his joy. He little knew<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The power of Magic was no fable;
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p52" class="page"><div class="center"><em>52</em></div><br>Out of the window, whisk, they flew,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; But left <a name="P_XI_80"></a><a href="#P_XI_80n">a spell</a> upon the table.<br><br>
The words too eager to unriddle,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The Poet felt a strange disorder;<br>
Transparent <a name="P_XI_83-84"></a><a href="#P_XI_83-84n">birdlime</a> formed the middle,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And <a href="#P_XI_83-84n">chains</a> invisible the border.<br><br>
So cunning was the apparatus,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The powerful pot-hooks did so move him,<br>
That, will he, nill he, to the great-house<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; He went, as if the Devil drove him.<br><br>
Yet on his way (no sign of grace,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; For folks in fear are apt to pray)<br>
To Phoebus he preferred his case,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And begged his aid that dreadful day.<br><br>
The godhead would have backed his quarrel,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; But, with a blush on recollection,<br>
Owned that his quiver and his laurel<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Gainst four such eyes were no protection.<br><br>
The Court was sate, the Culprit there,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Forth from their gloomy mansions creeping<br>
The lady <i>Janes</i> and <i>Joans</i> repair,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And from <a name="P_XI_100"></a><a href="#P_XI_100n">the gallery</a> stand peeping.<br><br>
Such as in silence of the night<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Come (sweep) along some winding entry,
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p53" class="page"><div class="center"><em>53</em></div><br>(<a name="P_XI_103"></a><a href="#P_XI_103n"><i>Styack</i></a> has often seen the sight)<a id="p1:p53:an2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p53:n2">2</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Or at the chapel-door stand sentry;<br><br>
In peaked hoods and mantles tarnished,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Sour visages, enough to scare ye,<br>
High Dames of honour once, that garnished<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The drawing-room of fierce Queen Mary!<br><br>
The Peeress comes. The audience stare,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And doff their hats with due submission;<br>
She curtsies, as she takes her chair,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; To all the people of condition.<br><br>
The Bard, with many an artful fib,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Had in imagination fenced him,<br>
Disproved the arguments of <a name="P_XI_115"></a><a href="#P_XI_115n"><i>Squib</i></a>,<a id="p1:p53:an3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p53:n3">3</a></sup><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And all that <a name="P_XI_116"></a><a href="#P_XI_116n"><i>Groom</i></a> could urge against him.<a id="p1:p53:an4"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p53:n4">4</a></sup><br><br>
But soon his rhetoric forsook him,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; When he the solemn hall had seen;<br>
A sudden fit of ague shook him,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; He stood as mute as poor <a name="P_XI_120"></a><a href="#P_XI_120n"><i>Macleane</i></a>.<a id="p1:p53:an5"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p53:n5">5</a></sup><br><br>
Yet something he was heard to mutter,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "How in the park beneath an old tree,
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p53:n2"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p53:an2">2</a></sup> &nbsp;103. The House-keeper.
<br><a id="p1:p53:n3"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p53:an3">3</a></sup> &nbsp;115. Groom of the Chambers.
<br><a id="p1:p53:n4"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p53:an4">4</a></sup> &nbsp;116. The Steward.
<br><a id="p1:p53:n5"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p53:an5">5</a></sup> &nbsp;120. A famous highwayman hanged the week before.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p54" class="page"><div class="center"><em>54</em></div><br>(Without design to hurt the butter,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Or any malice to the poultry,)<br><br>
"He once or twice had penned a sonnet;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Yet hoped, that he might save his bacon;<br>
Numbers would give their oaths upon it,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; He ne'er was for a conjuror taken."<br><br>
<a name="P_XI_129"></a><a href="#P_XI_129n">The ghostly Prudes</a> with hagged face<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Already had condemned the sinner.<br>
My Lady rose, and with a grace——<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; She smiled, and bid him come to dinner.<br><br>
"Jesu-Maria! Madame Bridget,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Why, what can the Viscountess mean?"<br>
(Cried <a name="P_XI_135"></a><a href="#P_XI_135n">the square hoods</a> in woful fidget)<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "The times are altered quite and clean!<br><br>
"Decorum's turned to mere civility;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Her air and all her manners show it.<br>
Commend me to her affability!<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Speak to a Commoner and Poet!"<br><br>
<div class="center small">[Here 500 Stanzas are lost.]</div><br>
And so God save our noble King,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And guard us from long-winded lubbers,<br>
That to eternity would sing,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And keep my Lady from her rubbers.
<p class="center">———</p>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p55" class="page"><div class="center"><em>55</em></div><br><div class="center"><a name="P_XII_0"></a><a href="#P_XII_0n">XII.</a><br><br>
ODE FOR MUSIC.<br><br>
<div class="small">
PERFORMED AT THE INSTALLATION OF THE CHANCELLOR<br>OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
CAMBRIDGE, 1769.</div><br></div>
<p class="center">Air.</p>
"Hence, avaunt, ('tis holy ground)<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Comus, and his midnight crew,<br>
And Ignorance with looks profound,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And dreaming <a name="P_XII_4"></a><a href="#P_XII_4n">Sloth of pallid hue</a>,<br>
Mad Sedition's cry profane,<br>
Servitude that hugs her chain,<br>
Nor in these consecrated bowers<br>
Let painted Flatt'ry hide her serpent train in flowers.
<p class="center">Chorus.</p>
"Nor Envy base, nor creeping Gain,<br>
Dare the Muse's walk to stain,<br>
While bright-eyed Science watches round;<br>
Hence, away, 'tis holy ground!"
<p class="center">Recitative.</p>
From yonder realms of empyrean day<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Bursts on my ear <a name="P_XII_14"></a><a href="#P_XII_14n">th' indignant lay</a>;<br>
There sit the sainted Sage, the Bard divine,<br>
<a name="P_XII_16"></a>&nbsp; &nbsp; The few, whom Genius gave to shine<br>
Thro' every unborn age, and undiscovered clime.
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p56" class="page"><div class="center"><em>56</em></div><br><div class="center">Accompanied.</div><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Rapt in celestial transport they,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Yet hither oft a glance from high<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; They send of tender sympathy<br>
To bless the place, where on <a name="P_XII_21"></a><a href="#P_XII_21n">their opening soul</a><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; First the genuine ardor stole.<br>
'Twas Milton struck the deep-toned shell,<br>
And, as the choral warblings round him swell,<br>
<a name="P_XII_25"></a><a href="#P_XII_25n">Meek Newton's</a> self bends from his state sublime,<br>
And nods his hoary head, and listens to the rhyme.
<p class="center">Air.</p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_XII_27-34"></a><a href="#P_XII_27-34n">"Ye brown o'er-arching</a> groves,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; That Contemplation loves,<br>
Where <a name="P_XII_29"></a><a href="#P_XII_29n">willowy Camus</a> lingers with delight!<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Oft at the blush of dawn<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; I trod your level lawn,
Oft wooed the gleam of Cynthia silver-bright<br>
In cloisters dim, far from the haunts of Folly,<br>
With Freedom by my side, and soft-eyed Melancholy."
<p class="center">Recitative.</p>
But hark! <a name="P_XII_35"></a><a href="#P_XII_35n">the portals sound</a>, and pacing forth,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; With solemn steps and slow,<br>
High potentates, and dames of royal birth,<br>
And mitred fathers in long order go;<br>
<a name="P_XII_39"></a><a href="#P_XII_39n">Great Edward</a>, with the lilies on his brow<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; From haughty Gallia torn,<br>
And <a name="P_XII_41"></a><a href="#P_XII_41n">sad Chatillon</a>, on her bridal morn
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p57" class="page"><div class="center"><em>57</em></div><br>That wept her bleeding Love, and <a name="P_XII_42"></a><a href="#P_XII_42n">princely Clare</a>,<br>
And <a name="P_XII_43"></a><a href="#P_XII_43n">Anjou's Heroine</a>, and the <a href="#P_XII_43n2">paler Rose</a>,<br>
The rival of her crown and of her woes,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; And <a name="P_XII_45"></a><a href="#P_XII_45n">either Henry</a> there,<br>
<a name="P_XII_46"></a>The murthered saint, and the majestic lord<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; That broke the bonds of Rome.
<p class="center">Accompanied.</p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; (Their tears, their little triumphs o'er,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Their human passions now no more,<br>
Save Charity, that glows beyond the tomb.)<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; All that on Granta's fruitful plain<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Rich streams of regal bounty poured,<br>
<a name="P_XII_53"></a>And bad these awful fanes and turrets rise,<br>
To hail their Fitzroy's festal morning come;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And thus they speak in soft accord<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The liquid language of the skies:—
<p class="center">Quartetto.</p>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "What is grandeur, what is power?<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Heavier toil, superior pain.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; What the bright reward we gain?<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The grateful memory of the good.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_XII_61-64"></a><a href="#P_XII_61-64n">Sweet is the breath</a> of vernal shower,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The bee's collected treasures sweet,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Sweet music's melting fall, but sweeter yet<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The still small voice of gratitude."
<p class="center">Recitative.</p>
Foremost and leaning from <a name="P_XII_65"></a><a href="#P_XII_65n">her golden cloud</a>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p58" class="page"><div class="center"><em>58</em></div><br>&nbsp; &nbsp; The <a name="P_XII_66"></a><a href="#P_XII_66n">venerable Margaret</a> see!<br>
"Welcome, my noble son, (she cries aloud)<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; To this, thy kindred train, and me;<br>
Pleased in thy lineaments we trace<br>
<a name="P_XII_70"></a><a href="#P_XII_70n">A Tudor's fire, a Beaufort's grace</a>."
<p class="center">Air.</p>
"Thy liberal heart, thy judging eye,<br>
The flower unheeded shall descry,<br>
And bid it round heaven's altars shed<br>
The fragrance of its blushing head;<br>
Shall raise from earth <a name="P_XII_75"></a><a href="#P_XII_75n">the latent gem</a><br>
To glitter on the diadem."
<p class="center">Recitative.</p>
"Lo! Granta waits to lead her blooming band,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_XII_78"></a><a href="#P_XII_78n">Not obvious, not obtrusive</a>, she<br>
<a name="P_XII_79"></a>No vulgar praise, no venal incense flings;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Nor dares with courtly tongue refined<br>
Profane thy inborn royalty of mind;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; She reveres herself and thee.<br>
With modest pride to grace thy youthful brow,<br>
<a href="#P_XII_84n2">The laureate wreath</a>, that <a name="P_XII_84"></a><a href="#P_XII_84n">Cecil</a> wore, she brings,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And to thy just, thy gentle hand<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Submits the fasces of her sway,<br>
While spirits blest above and men below<br>
Join with glad voice the loud symphonious lay."
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p59" class="page"><div class="center"><em>59</em></div><br><div class="center">Grand Chorus.</div><br>
"Thro' the <a name="P_XII_89"></a><a href="#P_XII_89n">wild waves as they roar</a>,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; With watchful eye and dauntless mien,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Thy steady course of honour keep,<br>
<a name="P_XII_92"></a><a href="#P_XII_92n">Nor fear the rocks, nor seek the shore;</a><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_XII_93"></a><a href="#P_XII_93n">The Star of Brunswick</a> smiles serene,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; And gilds the horrors of the deep."
<p class="center">———</p>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p60" class="page"><div class="center"><em>60</em></div><br><div class="center">POSTHUMOUS  POEMS.<br><br>
<a name="P_XIII_0"></a><a href="#P_XIII_0n">XIII.</a><br><br>
AGRIPPINA.<br><br>
<div class="small">A FRAGMENT OF A TRAGEDY.<br><br>
Dramatis Personae.<br><br></div></div>
<div class="small">
Agrippina, the Empress-mother.<br>
Nero, the Emperor.<br>
Poppaea, believed to be in love with Otho.<br>
Otho, a young man of quality, in love with Poppaea.<br>
Seneca, the Emperor's Preceptor.<br>
Anicetus, Captain of the Guards.<br>
Demetrius, the Cynic, friend to Seneca.<br>
Aceronia, Confidant to Agrippina.<br><br>
<div class="center">
Scene.—<i>The Emperor's villa at Baiae.</i><br><br>
The Argument.<br><br></div>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The drama opens with the indignation of Agrippina at receiving 
her son's orders from Anicetus to remove from Baiae, and to have her guard 
taken from her. At this time Otho having conveyed Poppaea from the house of 
her husband Rufus Crispinus, brings her to Baiae, where he means to conceal 
her among the crowd; or, if his fraud is discovered, to have recourse to the 
Emperor's authority; but, knowing the lawless temper of Nero, he determines 
not to have
</div>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p61" class="page"><div class="center"><em>61</em></div><br><div class="small">
recourse to that expedient but on the utmost necessity. In the meantime he 
commits her to the care of Anicetus, whom he takes to be his friend, and in
whose age he thinks he may safely confide. Nero is not yet come to Baiae; but 
Seneca, whom he sends before him, informs Agrippina of the accusation 
concerning Rubellius Plancus, and desires her to clear herself, which she 
does briefly, but demands to see her son, who, on his arrival, acquits her 
of all suspicion, and restores her to her honours.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; In the mean while, Anicetus, to whose care Poppaea had been 
intrusted by Otho, contrives the following plot to ruin Agrippina; he betrays 
his trust to Otho, and brings Nero, as it were by chance, to the sight of
the beautiful Poppaea. The Emperor is immediately struck with her charms, and 
she, by a feigned resistance, increases his passion; though, in reality, she 
is from the first dazzled with the prospect of empire, and forgets Otho. She 
therefore joins with Anicetus in his design of ruining Agrippina, soon 
perceiving that it will be for her interest. Otho hearing that the Emperor 
had seen Poppaea, is much enraged; but not knowing that this interview was 
obtained through the treachery of Anicetus, is readily persuaded by him to 
see Agrippina in secret, and acquaint her with his fears that her son Nero 
would marry Poppaea. Agrippina, to support her own power, and to wean the 
Emperor from the love of Poppaea, gives Otho encouragement, and promises to 
support him. Anicetus secretly introduces Nero to hear their discourse; who 
resolves immediately on his mother's death, and, by Anicetus's means, to 
destroy her by drowning. A solemn feast, in honour of their reconciliation, 
is to be made; after which she being to go by sea to Bauli, the ship is so 
contrived as to sink or crush her; she escapes by accident, and returns to 
Baiae.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; In this interval Otho has an interview with
</div>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p62" class="page"><div class="center"><em>62</em></div><br><div class="small">
Poppaea; and being duped a second time by Anicetus and her, determines to fly 
with her into Greece, by means of a vessel which is to be furnished by 
Anicetus; but he, pretending to remove Poppaea on board in the night, conveys 
her to Nero's apartment; she there encourages and determines Nero to banish 
Otho, and finish the horrid deed he had attempted on his mother. Anicetus 
undertakes to execute his resolves; and, under pretence of a plot upon the
Emperor's life, is sent with a guard to murder Agrippina, who is still at 
Baiae in imminent fear, and irresolute how to conduct herself. The account 
of her death, and the Emperor's horror and fruitless remorse, finishes the 
drama.</div><br><br>
<div class="center">
ACT I. &nbsp; &nbsp; Scene I.<br><br>
Agrippina. &nbsp; &nbsp; Aceronia.<br><br></div>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Agrip.</i> 'Tis well, begone! your errand is performed,
[<i>Speaks as to</i> Anicetus <i>entering.</i><br>
The message needs no comment. Tell your master,<br>
His mother shall obey him. Say you saw her<br>
Yielding due reverence to his high command;<br>
Alone, unguarded and without a lictor,<br>
As fits the daughter of Germanicus.<br>
Say, she retired to Antium; there to tend<br>
Her household cares, a woman's best employment.<br>
What if you add, how she turned pale and trembled;<br>
You think, you spied a tear stand in her eye,
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p63" class="page"><div class="center"><em>63</em></div><br>And would have dropped, but that her pride restrained it?<br>
(Go! you can paint it well) 'twill profit you,<br>
And please the stripling. Yet 'twould dash his joy<br>
To hear the spirit of Britannicus<br>
Yet walks on earth; at least there are who know<br>
Without a spell to raise, and bid it fire<br>
A thousand haughty hearts, unused to shake<br>
When a boy frowns, nor to be lured with smiles<br>
To taste of hollow kindness, or partake<br>
His hospitable board; they are aware<br>
Of the unpledged bowl, they love not aconite.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Acer.</i> He's gone; and much I hope these walls alone<br>
And the mute air are privy to your passion.<br>
Forgive your servant's fears, who sees the danger<br>
Which fierce resentment cannot fail to raise<br>
In haughty youth, and irritated power.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Agrip.</i> And dost thou talk to me, to me, of danger,<br>
Of haughty youth and irritated power,<br>
To her that gave it being, her that armed<br>
This painted Jove, and taught his novice hand<br>
To aim the forked bolt; while he stood trembling,<br>
Scared at the sound, and dazzled with its brightness?<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 'Tis like, thou hast forgot, when yet a stranger
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p64" class="page"><div class="center"><em>64</em></div><br>To adoration, to the grateful steam<br>
Of <a name="P_XIII_35"></a><a href="#P_XIII_35n">flattery's incense</a>, and obsequious vows<br>
From voluntary realms, a puny boy,<br>
Decked with no other lustre, than the blood<br>
Of Agrippina's race, <a name="P_XIII_38"></a><a href="#P_XIII_38n">he lived unknown</a><br>
To fame, or fortune; haply eyed at distance<br>
Some edileship, ambitious of the power<br>
To judge of weights and measures; scarcely dared<br>
On <a name="P_XIII_42"></a><a href="#P_XIII_42n">Expectation's</a> strongest wing to soar<br>
High as the consulate, that empty shade<br>
Of long-forgotten liberty; when I<br>
Oped his young eye to bear the blaze of greatness;<br>
Showed him where empire towered, and bade him strike<br>
The noble quarry. Gods! then was the time<br>
To shrink from danger; fear might then have worn<br>
The mask of prudence; but a heart like mine,<br>
A heart that glows with the pure Julian fire,<br>
If bright Ambition from her craggy seat<br>
Display the radiant prize, will mount undaunted,<br>
Gain the rough heights, and grasp the  dangerous honour.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Acer.</i> Through various life I have pursued your steps,<br>
Have seen your soul, and wondered at its daring;<br>
Hence rise my fears. Nor am I yet to learn
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p65" class="page"><div class="center"><em>65</em></div><br>How vast the debt of gratitude which Nero<br>
To such a mother owes; the world, you gave him,<br>
Suffices not to pay the obligation.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; I well remember too (for I was present)<br>
When in a secret and dead hour of night,<br>
Due sacrifice performed with barb'rous rites<br>
Of muttered charms, and solemn invocation,<br>
You bade the Magi call the dreadful powers,<br>
That read futurity, to know the fate<br>
Impending o'er your son; their answer was,<br>
If the son reign, the mother perishes.<br>
Perish (you cried) the mother! reign the son!<br>
He reigns, the rest is heaven's; who oft has bad,<br>
Even when its will seemed wrote in lines of blood,<br>
Th' unthought event disclose a whiter meaning.<br>
Think too how oft in weak and sickly minds<br>
The sweets of kindness lavishly indulged<br>
Rankle to gall; and benefits too great<br>
To be repaid, sit heavy on the soul,<br>
As unrequited wrongs. The willing homage<br>
Of prostrate Rome, the senate's joint applause,<br>
The riches of the earth, the train of pleasures<br>
That wait on youth, and arbitrary sway;<br>
These were your gift, and with them you bestowed<br>
The very power he has to be ungrateful.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Agrip.</i> Thus ever grave and undisturbed reflection<a name="P_XIII_82"></a><br>
Pours its cool dictates in the <a name="P_XIII_83"></a><a href="#P_XIII_83n">madding</a> ear
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p66" class="page"><div class="center"><em>66</em></div><br>Of rage, and thinks to quench the fire it feels not.<br>
Say'st thou I must be cautious, must be silent,<br>
And tremble at the phantom I have raised?<br>
Carry to him thy timid counsels. He<br>
Perchance may heed 'em. Tell him, too, that one,<br>
Who had such liberal power to give, may still<br>
With equal power resume that gift, and raise<br>
A tempest that shall shake her own creation<br>
To its original atoms—tell me, say!—<br>
This mighty emperor, this dreaded hero,<br>
Has he beheld the <a name="P_XIII_94"></a><a href="#P_XIII_94n">glittering front of war?</a><br>
Knows his soft ear the trumpet's thrilling voice,<br>
And outcry of the battle? Have his limbs<br>
Sweat under iron harness? Is he not<br>
The <a name="P_XIII_98"></a><a href="#P_XIII_98n">silken son of dalliance</a>, nursed in ease<br>
And pleasure's flowery lap?—Rubellius lives,<br>
And Sylla has his friends, though schooled by fear<br>
To bow the supple knee, and court the times<br>
With shows of fair obeisance; and a call,<br>
Like mine, might serve belike to wake pretensions<br>
Drowsier than theirs, who boast the genuine blood<br>
Of our imperial house.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Acer.</i><a id="p1:p66:an*"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p66:n*">*</a></sup> Did I not wish to check this dangerous
passion, 
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p66:n*"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p66:an*">*</a></sup> &nbsp;From <a href="#P_XIII_82
">line 82</a> to the end was one continued 
 speech; [p. 67] as Gray thought it too long, Mason broke it in three
 places, here by altering this passage and putting it into the mouth 
 of Aceronia, and by inserting two lines to be spoken by her, after 
 <a href="#P_XIII_158
">line 158</a>, and at <a href="#P_XIII_162
">line 162</a>; but I have removed these 
 interpolations.—<i>J. B.</i>
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p67" class="page"><div class="center"><em>67</em></div><br>I might remind my mistress that her nod<br>
Can rouse eight hardy legions, wont to stem<br>
With stubborn nerves the tide, and face the rigour<br>
Of bleak Germania's snows. Four, not less brave,<br>
That in Armenia quell the Parthian force<br>
Under the warlike Corbulo, by you<br>
Marked for their leader; these, by ties confirmed,<br>
Of <a name="P_XIII_114"></a><a href="#P_XIII_114n">old respect</a> and gratitude, are yours.<br>
Surely the Masians too, and those of Egypt,<br>
Have not forgot your sire; the eye of Rome<br>
And the Praetorian camp have long revered,<br>
With customed awe, the daughter, sister, wife,<br>
And mother of their Caesars.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Agrip.</i> Ha! by Juno,<br>
It bears a noble semblance. On this base<br>
My great revenge shall rise; or say we sound<br>
The trump of Liberty; there will not want,<br>
Even in the servile senate, ears to own<br>
Her <a name="P_XIII_124"></a><a href="#P_XIII_124n">spirit-stirring</a> voice; Soranus there,<br>
And Cassius, Vetus too, and Thrasea,<br>
Minds of the antique cast, rough, stubborn souls,
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p68" class="page"><div class="center"><em>68</em></div><br>That struggle with the yoke. How shall the spark<br>
Unquenchable, that glows within their breasts,<br>
Blaze into freedom, when the idle herd<br>
(Slaves from the womb, created but to stare,<br>
And bellow in the Circus) yet will start,<br>
And shake 'em at the name of Liberty,<br>
Stung by a senseless word, a vain tradition,<br>
As there were magic in it! Wrinkled beldams<br>
Teach it their grandchildren, as somewhat rare<br>
That anciently appeared, but when, extends<br>
Beyond their chronicle—oh! 'tis a cause<br>
To arm the hand of childhood, and rebrace<br>
The slackened sinews of time-wearied age.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Yes, we may meet, ingrateful boy, we may!<br>
Again the buried Genius of old Rome<br>
Shall from the dust uprear his reverend head,<br>
Roused by the shout of millions; there before<br>
His high tribunal thou and I appear.<br>
Let majesty sit on thy awful brow,<br>
And lighten from thy eye; around thee call<br>
<a name="P_XIII_147"></a><a href="#P_XIII_147n">The gilded swarm</a> that wantons in the sunshine<br>
Of thy full favour; Seneca be there<br>
In <a name="P_XIII_149"></a><a href="#P_XIII_149n">gorgeous phrase</a> of laboured eloquence<br>
To dress thy plea, and Burrhus strengthen it.<br>
With his plain soldier's oath, and honest seeming.<br>
Against thee, Liberty and Agrippina;<br>
The world, the prize; and fair befall the victors.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; But soft! why do I waste the <a name="P_XIII_154"></a><a href="#P_XIII_154n">fruitless</a> hours<br>
In threats unexecuted? Haste thee, fly
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p69" class="page"><div class="center"><em>69</em></div><br>These hated walls that seem to mock my shame,<br>
And cast me forth in duty to their lord.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; My thought aches at him; not the basilisk<a name="P_XIII_158"></a><br>
More deadly to the sight, than is to me<br>
The cool injurious eye of frozen kindness.<br>
I will not meet its poison. Let him feel<br>
Before he sees me. Yes, I will be gone,<a name="P_XIII_162"></a><br>
But not to Antium—all shall be confessed,<br>
Whate'er the frivolous tongue of giddy fame<br>
Has spread among the crowd; things, that but whispered<br>
Have <a name="P_XIII_165"></a><a href="#P_XIII_165n">arched the hearer's brow</a>, and riveted<br>
His eyes in fearful ecstasy; no matter<br>
What; so't be strange, and dreadful.—Sorceries,<br>
Assassinations, poisonings—the deeper<br>
My guilt, the blacker his ingratitude.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And you, ye manes of Ambition's victims,<br>
Enshrined Claudius, with the pitied ghosts<br>
Of the Syllani, doomed to early death,<br>
(Ye unavailing horrors, fruitless crimes!)<br>
If from the realms of night my voice ye hear,<br>
In lieu of penitence, and vain remorse,<br>
Accept my vengeance. Though by me ye bled,<br>
He was the cause. My love, my fears for him,<br>
Dried the soft springs of pity in my heart,<br>
And froze them up with deadly cruelty.<br>
Yet if your injured shades demand my fate,<br>
If murder cries for murder, blood for blood,<br>
Let me not fall alone; but crush his pride,<br>
And sink the traitor in his mother's ruin.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [<i>Exeunt.</i>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p70" class="page"><div class="center"><em>70</em></div><br><div class="center">Scene II. &nbsp; &nbsp; Otho, Poppaea.</div><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <i>Otho.</i> Thus far we're safe. Thanks to the rosy queen<br>
Of amorous thefts; and had her wanton son<br>
Lent us his wings, we could not have beguiled<br>
With more <a name="P_XIII_188"></a><a href="#P_XIII_188n">elusive</a> speed the dazzled sight<br>
Of wakeful jealousy. Be gay securely;<br>
Dispel, my fair, with smiles, the tim'rous cloud<br>
That hangs on thy clear brow. So Helen looked,<br>
So her white neck reclined, so was she borne<br>
By the young Trojan to his gilded bark<br>
With fond reluctance, yielding modesty,<br>
And oft reverted eye, as if she knew not<br>
Whether she feared, or wished to be pursued.
<p class="center">&nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp;
&nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp;</p>
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XIV_0"></a><a href="#P_XIV_0n">XIV.</a><br><br>
SONNET.<br><br>
<div class="small">ON THE DEATH OF RICHARD WEST.</div></div><br>
In vain to me the <a name="P_XIV_1"></a><a href="#P_XIV_1n">smiling</a> Mornings shine,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And reddening Phoebus lifts his golden fire;<br>
The birds in vain their <a name="P_XIV_3"></a><a href="#P_XIV_3n">amorous descant</a> join;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Or cheerful fields resume their green <a name="P_XIV_4"></a><a href="#P_XIV_4n">attire</a>;<br>
These ears, alas! for other notes repine,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; A different object do these eyes require;<br>
My lonely anguish melts no heart but mine;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And in my breast the <a name="P_XIV_8"></a><a href="#P_XIV_8n">imperfect</a> joys expire.
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p71" class="page"><div class="center"><em>71</em></div><br>Yet Morning smiles the busy race to cheer,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And new-born pleasure brings to happier men;<br>
The fields to all their wonted tribute bear;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; To warm their little loves the birds complain;<br>
<a name="P_XIV_13"></a>I fruitless mourn to him that cannot hear,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_XIV_14"></a><a href="#P_XIV_14n">And weep the more because I weep in vain.</a><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; <i>At Stoke, Aug.,</i> 1742.
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XV_0"></a><a href="#P_XV_0n">XV.</a><br><br>
HYMN TO IGNORANCE.<br><br>
<div class="small">A FRAGMENT.</div></div><br>
Hail, horrors, hail! ye ever gloomy bowers,<br>
Ye gothic <a name="P_XV_2"></a><a href="#P_XV_2n">fanes</a>, and antiquated towers,<br>
Where <a name="P_XV_3"></a><a href="#P_XV_3n">rushy Camus'</a> slowly-winding flood<br>
<a name="P_XV_4"></a><a href="#P_XV_4n">Perpetual draws his humid train</a> of mud;<br>
Glad I revisit thy neglected reign,<br>
Oh take me to thy peaceful shade again.<br>
But chiefly thee, whose influence breathed from high<br>
Augments the native darkness of the sky;<br>
Ah, Ignorance! soft salutary power!<br>
Prostrate with filial reverence I adore.<br>
Thrice hath Hyperion rolled his annual race,<br>
Since weeping I forsook thy fond embrace.<br>
Oh say, successful dost thou still oppose<br>
Thy leaden aegis 'gainst our ancient foes?
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p72" class="page"><div class="center"><em>72</em></div><br>Still stretch, tenacious of thy right divine,<br>
The massy sceptre o'er thy slumbering line?<br>
And dews Lethean through the land dispense<br>
To steep in slumbers each benighted sense?<br>
If any spark of wit's delusive ray<br>
Break out and flash a momentary day,<br>
With damp, cold touch forbid it to aspire,<br>
And huddle up in fogs the dang'rous fire.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Oh say—she hears me not, but, careless grown,<br>
Lethargic nods upon her ebon throne.<br>
Goddess! awake, arise! alas, my fears!<br>
Can powers immortal feel the force of years?<br>
Not thus of old, with ensigns wide unfurled,<br>
She rode triumphant o'er the vanquished world;<br>
Fierce nations owned her unresisted might,<br>
And all was Ignorance, and all was Night.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Oh! sacred Age! Oh! Times for ever lost!<br>
(The Schoolman's glory, and the Churchman's boast.)<br>
For ever gone—yet still to Fancy new,<br>
Her rapid wings the transient scene pursue,<br>
And bring the buried ages back to view.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_XV_36"></a><a href="#P_XV_36n">High on her car, behold the grandam ride</a><br>
Like old Sesostris with barbaric pride;<br>
<a name="P_XV_38"></a><a href="#P_XV_38n">. . . a team of harnessed monarchs bend</a>
<p class="center">&nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp;
&nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp;</p>
<p class="center">———</p>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p73" class="page"><div class="center"><em>73</em></div><br><div class="center"><a name="P_XVI_0"></a><a href="#P_XVI_0n">XVI.</a><br><br>
THE ALLIANCE OF<br>EDUCATION AND GOVERNMENT.<br><br>
<div class="small">A FRAGMENT.<br><br>COMMENTARY.<a id="p1:p73:an*"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p73:n*">*</a></sup></div></div><br>
<div class="small">
The author's subject being <i>The necessary Alliance between a good Form of 
Government and a good Mode of Education, in order to produce the Happiness 
of Mankind,</i> the Poem opens with two similes; an uncommon kind of exordium; 
but which I suppose the poet intentionally chose, to intimate the analogical 
method he meant to pursue in his subsequent reasonings.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; 1st, He asserts that men without education are like sickly 
plants in a cold or barren soil (l. 1 to 5, and 8 to 12); and, 2dly, he 
compares them, when unblest with a just and well-regulated government, to 
plants that will not blossom or bear fruit in an unkindly and inclement air 
(l. 5 to 9, and l. 13 to 22). Having thus laid down the two propositions he 
means to prove, he begins by examining into the characteristics which (taking 
a general view of mankind) all men have in common one with another (l. 22 to 
39); they covet pleasure and avoid pain (l. 31); they feel gratitude for 
benefits (l. 34); they desire to avenge wrongs, which they effect either by 
force or cunning (l. 35); they are linked to each other by their common 
feelings, and participate in sorrow and in joy (l. 36, 37).<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; If then all the human species agree in so many
</div>
<div class="small"><br><a id="p1:p73:n*"></a><sup><a href="#p1:p73:an*">*</a></sup> &nbsp;Formed by Mason, "on carefully reviewing the scattered papers 
 in prose which he writ, as hints for his own use in the prosecution 
 of this work."—<i>Mason</i>, vol. iii. p. 98.
</div></div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p74" class="page"><div class="center"><em>74</em></div><br><div class="small">
moral particulars, whence arises the diversity of national characters?
This question the poet puts at l. 38, and dilates upon to l. 64. Why, says
he, have some nations shown a propensity to commerce and industry;
others to war and rapine; others to ease and pleasure? (l. 42 to 46). Why
have the northern people overspread, in all ages, and prevailed over the
southern? (l. 46 to 58). Why has Asia been, time out of mind, the seat of
despotism, and Europe that of freedom? (l. 59 to 64). Are we from
these instances to imagine men necessarily enslaved to
the inconveniences of the climate where they were born? (l. 64 to
72). Or are we not rather to suppose there is a natural strength in the
human mind, that is able to vanquish and break through them? (l. 72 to
84).<br> 
&nbsp; &nbsp; It is confessed, however, that men receive an early tincture 
from the situation they are placed in, and the climate which produces them 
(l. 84 to 88). Thus the inhabitants of the mountains, inured to labour and
patience, are naturally trained to war (l. 88 to 96); while those of the
plain are more open to any attack, and softened by ease and plenty (l. 96
to 99). Again, the Egyptians, from the nature of their situation,
might be the inventors of home navigation, from a necessity of keeping up
an intercourse between their towns during the inundation of the Nile
(l. 99, etc.).<br> 
&nbsp; &nbsp; Those persons would naturally have the first turn to commerce 
who inhabited a barren coast like the Tyrians, and were persecuted by some
neighbouring tyrant; or were drove to take refuge on some shoals, like
the Venetian and Hollander; their discovery of some rich island, in the
infancy of the world, described. The Tartar, hardened to war by
his rigorous climate and pastoral life, and by his disputes for water
and herbage in a country without landmarks, as also by skirmishes between
his rival clans, was consequently fitted to conquer his rich southern 
</div>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p75" class="page"><div class="center"><em>75</em></div><br><div class="small">
neighbours, whom ease and luxury had enervated. Yet this is no proof that 
liberty and valour may not exist in southern climes, since the Syrians and 
Carthaginians gave noble instances of both; and the Arabians carried their 
conquests as far as the Tartars. Rome also (for many centuries) repulsed 
those very nations which, when she grew weak, at length demolished her 
extensive empire.
</div>
<p class="center">Essay I.</p>
<blockquote>
. . . <i>Πόταγ', ω
'γαθε· 
τάν γάρ
άοιδάν</i><br>
<i>Ούτι πα εις
Aιδάν γε τον
εκλελάθοντα
ϕυλαξεϊς.</i><br> 
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Theocritus, Id. I. 63.
</blockquote>
As sickly plants betray a niggard earth,<br>
<a name="P_XVI_2"></a><a href="#P_XVI_2n">Whose barren bosom</a> starves her generous birth,<br>
Nor genial warmth, nor genial juice retains<br>
Their roots to feed, and fill their verdant veins;<br>
And as in climes, where Winter holds his reign,<br>
The soil, though fertile, will not teem in vain,<br>
Forbids her gems to swell, her shades to rise,<br>
Nor trusts her blossoms to the churlish skies,<br>
<a name="P_XVI_9"></a><a href="#P_XVI_9n">So draw mankind in vain the vital airs,</a><br>
unformed, unfriended, by those kindly cares,<br>
That health and vigour to the soul impart,<br>
Spread the young thought, and warm the <a name="P_XVI_12"></a><a href="#P_XVI_12n">opening heart</a>.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; So fond Instruction on the growing powers<br>
Of <a name="P_XVI_14"></a><a href="#P_XVI_14n">Nature idly lavishes her stores</a>,<br>
If equal Justice with unclouded face<br>
Smile not indulgent on the rising race,
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p76" class="page"><div class="center"><em>76</em></div><br>And <a name="P_XVI_17"></a><a href="#P_XVI_17n">scatter with a free though frugal hand<br>
Light golden showers of plenty</a> o'er the land.<br>
But <a name="P_XVI_19_21"></a><a href="#P_XVI_19_21n">Tyranny has</a> fixed her empire there,<br>
To check their tender hopes with chilling fear,<br>
And blast the <a href="#P_XVI_19_21n">blooming</a> promise of the year.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; This spacious animated scene survey<br>
From where the rolling orb, that gives the day,<br>
His sable sons with nearer course surrounds,<br>
To either pole, and life's remotest bounds.<br>
How rude so e'er th' exterior form we find,<br>
Howe'er Opinion tinge the varied mind,<br>
Alike to all the kind impartial Heaven<br>
The sparks of truth and happiness has given;<br>
With sense to feel, with memory to retain,<br>
They follow pleasure, and they fly from pain;<br>
Their judgment mends the plan their fancy draws,<br>
Th' event presages, and explores the cause.<br>
The soft returns of gratitude they know,<br>
By fraud elude, by force repel the foe,<br>
While mutual wishes, mutual woes endear<br>
The social smile, and sympathetic tear.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Say then, thro' ages by what fate confined<br>
To different climes seem different souls assigned?<br>
Here measured laws and philosophic ease<br>
Fix and improve the polished arts of peace;<br>
There Industry and Gain their vigils keep,<br>
Command the winds, and tame th' unwilling deep.
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p77" class="page"><div class="center"><em>77</em></div><br>Here Force and hardy deeds of blood prevail.<br>
There languid Pleasure sighs in every gale.<br>
Oft o'er the trembling nations from afar<br>
Has Scythia breathed the living cloud of war;<br>
And, where the deluge burst, with <a name="P_XVI_48"></a><a href="#P_XVI_48n">sweepy sway</a><br>
Their arms, their kings, their gods were rolled away.<br>
As oft have issued, host impelling host,<br>
The blue-eyed myriads from the Baltic coast.<br>
The prostrate South to the destroyer yields<br>
Her boasted titles and her golden fields.<br>
With grim delight the brood of Winter view<br>
A brighter day, and heavens of azure hue;<br>
Scent the <a name="P_XVI_56"></a><a href="#P_XVI_56n">new fragrance of the breathing rose</a>,<br>
And quaff the pendent vintage as it grows.<br>
Proud of the yoke, and pliant to the rod,<br>
Why yet does Asia dread a monarch's nod,<br>
While European freedom still withstands<br>
Th' encroaching tide, that drowns her lessening lands,<br>
And sees far off with an indignant groan,<br>
Her native plains, and empires once her own.<br>
Can opener skies, and suns of fiercer flame<br>
O'erpower the fire that animates our frame;<br>
<a name="P_XVI_66"></a><a href="#P_XVI_66n">As lamps, that shed</a> at <a href="#P_XVI_66n2">eve</a> a cheerful ray,<br>
Fade and expire beneath the eye of day?<br>
Need we the influence of the northern star<br>
To string our nerves and steel our hearts to war?<br>
And, where the face of nature laughs around,
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p78" class="page"><div class="center"><em>78</em></div><br>Must sick'ning virtue fly the tainted ground?<br>
Unmanly thought! what seasons can control,<br>
What fancied zone can circumscribe the Soul,<br>
Who, conscious of the source from whence she springs,<br>
By Reason's light, on Resolution's wings,<br>
Spite of her frail companion, dauntless goes<br>
O'er Libya's deserts and through Zembla's snows?<br>
She bids each slumb'ring energy awake,<br>
Another touch, another temper take,<br>
Suspends th' inferior laws that rule our clay;<br>
The stubborn elements confess her sway,<br>
Their little wants, their low desires, refine,<br>
And raise the mortal to a height divine.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Not but the human fabric from the birth<br>
Imbibes a flavour of its parent earth,<br>
As various tracts enforce a various toil,<br>
The manners speak the idiom of their soil.<br>
An iron-race the mountain-cliffs maintain,<br>
Foes to the gentler genius of the plain;<br>
For where unwearied sinews must be found<br>
With side-long plough to quell the flinty ground,<br>
To turn the torrent's swift-descending flood,<br>
To brave the savage rushing from the wood,<br>
What wonder, if to patient valour trained<br>
They guard with spirit what by strength they gained?<br>
And while their rocky ramparts round they see,
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p79" class="page"><div class="center"><em>79</em></div><br>The rough abode of want and liberty,<br>
(As lawless force from confidence will grow)<br>
Insult the plenty of the vales below?<br>
What wonder in the sultry climes, that spread<br>
Where Nile redundant o'er his summer-bed<br>
From his broad bosom life and verdure <a name="P_XVI_103"></a><a href="#P_XVI_103n">flings</a><br>
And broods o'er Egypt with his wat'ry wings,<br>
<a name="P_XVI_105"></a><a href="#P_XVI_105n">If with adventurous oar</a> and ready sail,<br>
The dusky people drive before the gale;<br>
Or on frail floats to distant cities ride,<br>
That rise and glitter o'er the ambient tide?
<p class="center">&nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp;
&nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp;</p>
<div class="small">
&nbsp; &nbsp; "I found also among these papers a single couplet, much 
too beautiful to be lost, though the place where he meant to introduce it 
cannot be ascertained."—<i>Mason.</i></div><br>
When love could teach a monarch to be wise,<br>
And gospel-light first dawned from Bullen's eyes.
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XVII_0"></a><a href="#P_XVII_0n">XVII.</a><br><br>
STANZAS TO Mr. BENTLEY.<br><br></div>
In silent gaze the tuneful choir among,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Half pleased, half blushing, let the Muse admire,<br>
While <a name="P_XVII_3"></a><a href="#P_XVII_3n">Bentley</a> leads her <a href="#P_XVII_3n2">sister-art</a> along,<br>
<a name="P_XVII_4"></a>&nbsp; &nbsp; And bids the pencil answer to the lyre.
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p80" class="page"><div class="center"><em>80</em></div><br>See, in their course, each transitory thought<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Fixed by his touch a lasting essence take;<br>
<a name="P_XVII_7-8"></a><a href="#P_XVII_7-8n">Each dream, in fancy's</a> airy colouring wrought,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; To local symmetry and life awake!<br><br>
The tardy rhymes that used to linger on,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; To censure cold, and negligent of fame,<br>
In swifter measures animated run,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And catch a lustre from his genuine flame.<br><br>
Ah! could they catch his strength, his easy grace,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; His quick creation, his unerring line;<br>
The energy of Pope they might efface,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And Dryden's harmony submit to mine.<br><br>
<a name="P_XVII_17-20"></a><a href="#P_XVII_17-20n">But not to one</a> in this benighted age<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Is that diviner inspiration given,<br>
That burns in Shakespeare's or in Milton's page,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The <a name="P_XVII_20"></a><a href="#P_XVII_20n">pomp and prodigality of heaven</a>.<br><br>
<a name="P_XVII_21-24"></a><a href="#P_XVII_21-24n">As, when conspiring</a> in the diamond's blaze,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The meaner gems, that singly charm the sight,<br>
Together dart their intermingled rays,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And dazzle with a luxury of light.<a name="P_XVII_24"></a><br><br>
Enough for me, if to some feeling breast<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; My lines a secret sympathy <a name="P_XVII_26"></a><a href="#P_XVII_26n">. .</a><br>
And as their pleasing influence . . .<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; A sigh of soft reflection . . . .
<p class="center">———</p>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p81" class="page"><div class="center"><em>81</em></div><br><div class="center"><a name="P_XVIII_0"></a><a href="#P_XVIII_0n">XVIII.</a><br><br>
ODE<br>ON THE PLEASURE ARISING FROM<br>VICISSITUDE.
<br><br>
<div class="small">A FRAGMENT.</div><br></div>
Now the golden Morn aloft<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Waves her dew-bespangled wing,<br>
With vermeil cheek and whisper soft<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; She woos the tardy spring;<br>
Till April starts, and calls around<br>
The sleeping fragrance from the ground;<br>
And lightly o'er the living scene<br>
Scatters his freshest, tenderest green.<br><br>
New-born flocks, in rustic dance,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Frisking ply their feeble feet;<br>
Forgetful of their wintry trance,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The birds his presence greet;<br>
But chief, <a name="P_XVIII_13-16"></a><a href="#P_XVIII_13-16n">the sky-lark warbles</a> high<br>
His trembling thrilling ecstasy<br>
And, lessening from the dazzled sight,<br>
Melts into air and liquid light.<br><br>
<a name="P_XVIII_17"></a><a href="#P_XVIII_17n">Rise, my soul!</a> on wings of fire,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Rise the rapturous choir among;<br>
Hark! 'tis Nature strikes the lyre,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And leads the general song.
<p class="center small">&nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp;
* &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; </p>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p82" class="page"><div class="center"><em>82</em></div><br>Yesterday the sullen year<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Saw the snowy whirlwind fly;<br>
Mute was the music of the air,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; The Herd stood drooping by;<br>
Their raptures now that wildly flow,<br>
No yesterday, nor morrow know;<br>
'Tis man alone that joy descries<br>
With forward and reverted eyes.<br><br>
<a name="P_XVIII_29-36"></a><a href="#P_XVIII_29-36n">Smiles on past Misfortune's</a> brow<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Soft Reflection's hand can trace;<br>
And o'er the cheek of Sorrow throw<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; A melancholy grace;<br>
While Hope prolongs our happier hour,<br>
Or deepest shades, that dimly lower<br>
And blacken round our weary way,<br>
Gilds with a gleam of distant day.<br><br>
Still, where rosy Pleasure leads,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; See a kindred Grief pursue;<br>
Behind the steps that Misery treads,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Approaching Comfort view;<br>
The hues of Bliss more brightly glow,<br>
Chastised by sabler tints of woe;<br>
And blended form, with artful strife,<br>
The strength and harmony of Life.<br><br>
<a name="P_XVIII_45-52"></a><a href="#P_XVIII_45-52n">See the Wretch,</a> that long has tost<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; On the thorny bed of Pain,<br>
At length repair his vigour lost,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And breathe and walk again;
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p83" class="page"><div class="center"><em>83</em></div><br>The meanest flowret of the vale,<br>
The simplest note that swells the gale,<br>
The common Sun, the air, the skies,<br>
To him are opening Paradise.<br><br>
Humble Quiet builds her cell,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Near the source whence Pleasure flows;<br>
She eyes the clear <a name="P_XVIII_55"></a><a href="#P_XVIII_55n">chrystalline</a> well,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And tastes it as it goes.
<p class="center small">&nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp;
* &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; </p>
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XIX_0"></a><a href="#P_XIX_0n">XIX.</a><br><br>
EPITAPH ON MRS. CLARKE.<br><br></div>
Lo! where <a name="P_XIX_1"></a><a href="#P_XIX_1n">this silent marble weeps</a>,<br>
A Friend, a Wife, a Mother sleeps;<br>
A heart, within whose sacred cell<br>
The peaceful virtues loved to dwell.<br>
Affection warm, and faith sincere,<br>
And <a name="P_XIX_6"></a><a href="#P_XIX_6n">soft humanity</a> were there.<br>
<a name="P_XIX_7-10"></a><a href="#P_XIX_7-10n">In agony, in death,</a> resigned,<br>
She felt the wound she left behind,<br>
<a name="P_XIX_9"></a><a href="#P_XIX_9n">Her infant image</a> here below<br>
Sits smiling on a father's woe;<br>
<a name="P_XIX_11"></a>Whom what awaits, while yet he strays<br>
Along the lonely vale of days?<br>
A pang, to secret sorrow dear,<br>
A sigh, an unavailing tear;<br>
Till time shall every grief remove,<br>
With life, with memory, and with love.
<p class="center">———</p>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p84" class="page"><div class="center"><em>84</em></div><br><div class="center"><a name="P_XX_0"></a><a href="#P_XX_0n">XX.</a><br><br>
EPITAPH ON A CHILD.<br><br></div>
Here freed from pain, secure from misery, lies<br>
A Child, the darling of his parents' eyes;<br>
A gentler lamb ne'er sported on the plain,<br>
A fairer flower will never bloom again!<br>
Few were the days allotted to his breath;<br>
Here let him sleep in peace his night of death.
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XXI_0"></a><a href="#P_XXI_0n">XXI.</a><br><br>
GRAY ON HIMSELF.<br><br>
<div class="small">WRITTEN IN 1761, AND FOUND IN ONE OF
HIS<br>POCKET-BOOKS.</div><br>
</div>
<a name="P_XXI_1"></a><a href="#P_XXI_1n">Too poor for a bribe,</a> and too proud to <a href="#P_XXI_1n2">importune</a>;<br>
He had not the method of making a fortune;<br>
Could love, and could hate, so was thought somewhat odd;<br>
<a name="P_XXI_4"></a><a href="#P_XXI_4n">No very great wit, he believed in a God.</a><br>
A place or a pension he did not desire,<br>
But left church and state to <a name="P_XXI_6"></a><a href="#P_XXI_6n">Charles Townshend</a> and <a href="#P_XXI_6n2">Squire</a>.
<p class="center">———</p>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p85" class="page"><div class="center"><em>85</em></div><br><div class="center"><a name="P_XXII_0"></a><a href="#P_XXII_0n">XXII.</a><br><br>
EPITAPH ON SIR WILLIAM WILLIAMS.<br><br></div>
Here, foremost in the dangerous paths of fame,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Young Williams fought for England's fair renown;<br>
His mind each Muse, each Grace adorned his frame,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Nor envy dared to view him with a frown.<br><br>
At <a name="P_XXII_5"></a><a href="#P_XXII_5n">Aix</a>, his <a href="#P_XXII_5n2">voluntary sword he drew</a>,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; There first in blood his infant <a name="P_XXII_6"></a><a href="#P_XXII_6n">honour</a> sealed;<br>
From fortune, pleasure, science, love, he flew,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And scorned repose when Britain took the field.<br><br>
With eyes of flame, and cool <a name="P_XXII_9"></a><a href="#P_XXII_9n">undaunted</a> breast<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_XXII_10"></a><a href="#P_XXII_10n">Victor</a> he stood on <a href="#P_XXII_10n2">Belleisle's</a> rocky steeps—<br>
Ah, gallant youth; this marble tells the rest,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Where melancholy friendship bends, and weeps.
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XXIII_0"></a><a href="#P_XXIII_0n">XXIII.</a><br><br>
THE DEATH OF HOEL.<br><br>
<div class="small">AN ODE. &nbsp; SELECTED FROM THE GODODIN.</div><br>
</div>
Had I but the torrent's might,<br>
With headlong rage and wild affright
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p86" class="page"><div class="center"><em>86</em></div><br>Upon <a name="P_XXIII_3"></a><a href="#P_XXIII_3n">Deira's</a> squadrons hurled,<br>
To rush, and sweep them from the world!<br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Too, too secure in youthful pride,<br>
By them my friend, my Hoel, died,<br>
Great Cian's son; of Madoc old<br>
He asked no heaps of hoarded gold;<br>
Alone in nature's wealth arrayed,<br>
He asked and had the lovely maid.<br><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; To <a name="P_XXIII_11"></a><a href="#P_XXIII_11n">Cattraeth's</a> vale in glitt'ring row<br>
<a name="P_XXIII_12"></a><a href="#P_XXIII_12n">Thrice two hundred</a> warriors go;<br>
Every warrior's manly neck<br>
<a name="P_XXIII_14"></a><a href="#P_XXIII_14n">Chains</a> of regal honour deck,<br>
Wreathed in many a golden link;<br>
<a name="P_XXIII_16-18"></a><a href="#P_XXIII_16-18n">From the</a> golden cup they drink<br>
Nectar that the bees produce,<br>
Or the grape's ecstatic juice.<br>
Flushed with mirth and hope they burn;<br>
But none from Cattraeth's vale return,<br>
Save Aëron brave, and Conan strong,<br>
(Bursting through the bloody throng)<br>
<a name="P_XXIII_23"></a><a href="#P_XXIII_23n">And I</a>, the meanest of them all,<br>
That live to weep and sing their fall.
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XXIV_0"></a><a href="#P_XXIV_0n">XXIV.</a><br><br>
CARADOC.<br><br></div>
Have ye seen the <a name="P_XXIV_1"></a><a href="#P_XXIV_1n">tusky boar</a>,<br>
Or the bull, with <a name="P_XXIV_2"></a><a href="#P_XXIV_2n">sullen roar</a>,<br>
On surrounding foes advance?<br>
So Caràdoc bore his lance.
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p87" class="page"><div class="center"><em>87</em></div><br><div class="center"><a name="P_XXV_0"></a><a href="#P_XXV_0n">XXV.</a><br><br>
CONAN.<br><br></div>
Conan's name, my lay, <a name="P_XXV_1"></a><a href="#P_XXV_1n">rehearse</a>,<br>
<a name="P_XXV_2"></a><a href="#P_XXV_2n">Build to him the lofty verse</a>,<br>
Sacred tribute of the bard,<br>
Verse, the hero's sole reward.<br>
As the flame's devouring force;<br>
As the whirlwind in its course;<br>
As the thunder's fiery stroke,<br>
Glancing on the <a name="P_XXV_8"></a><a href="#P_XXV_8n">shivered</a> oak;<br>
Did the sword of Conan mow<br>
The <a name="P_XXV_10"></a><a href="#P_XXV_10n">crimson</a> harvest of the foe.
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XXVI_0"></a><a href="#P_XXVI_0n">XXVI.</a><br><br>
THE CANDIDATE,<br><br>
<div class="small">OR THE CAMBRIDGE COURTSHIP.</div><br>
</div>
When sly Jemmy Twitcher had smugged up his face,<br>
With a lick of court white-wash, and pious grimace,<br>
A wooing he went, where three sisters of old<br>
In harmless society guttle and scold.<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "Lord! sister," says Physic to Law, "I
declare,<br>
Such a sheep-biting look, such a pick-pocket air!
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p88" class="page"><div class="center"><em>88</em></div><br>Not I for the Indies!—You know I'm no prude,—<br>
But his nose is a shame,—and his eyes are so lewd!<br>
Then he <a name="P_XXVI_9"></a><a href="#P_XXVI_9n">shambles</a> and straddles so oddly—I fear—<br>
No—at our time of life 'twould be silly, my dear."<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; "I don't know," says Law, "but methinks for his
look,<br> 
'Tis just like the picture in Rochester's book;<br>
Then his character, <i>Phyzzy,</i>—his morals—his life—<br>
When she died, I can't tell,—but he once had a wife.<br>
They say he's no Christian, loves drinking and whoring,<br>
And all the town rings of his swearing and roaring!<br>
And filching and lying, and Newgate-bird tricks;—<br>
Not I—for a coronet, chariot and six."<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Divinity heard, between waking and dozing,<br>
Her sisters denying, and Jemmy proposing;<br>
From table she rose, and with bumper in hand,<br>
She stroked up her belly, and stroked down her band—<br>
"What a pother is here about wenching and roaring!<br>
Why, David loved catches, and Solomon whoring;<br>
Did not Israel filch from the Egyptians of old<br>
Their jewels of silver and jewels of gold?
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p89" class="page"><div class="center"><em>89</em></div><br>The prophet of Bethel, we read, told a lie;<br>
He drinks—so did Noah;—he swears—so do I;<br>
To reject him for such peccadillos, were odd;<br>
Besides, he repents—for he talks about God—
<div class="center"><i>To</i> Jemmy:—</div>
Never hang down your head, your poor penitent elf,<br>
Come buss me—I'll be Mrs. <i>Twitcher</i> myself."
<p class="center">&nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp;
&nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp; * &nbsp; &nbsp;</p>
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XXVII_0"></a><a href="#P_XXVII_0n">XXVII.</a><br><br>
VERSES FROM SHAKESPEARE<br><br>
<div class="small">To Mrs. Anne, Regular Servant to the Rev. Mr.<br>Precentor
of York.</div><br></div>
A moment's patience, gentle <a name="P_XXVII_1"></a><a href="#P_XXVII_1n">Mistress Anne</a>;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; (But stint your clack for sweet St. Charitie)<br>
'Tis Willy begs, once a <a name="P_XXVII_3"></a><a href="#P_XXVII_3n">right proper man</a>,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Though now a book, and interleaved you see.<br><br>
Much have I borne from <a name="P_XXVII_5"></a><a href="#P_XXVII_5n">cankered</a> critic's spite,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_XXVII_6-7"></a><a href="#P_XXVII_6-7n">From fumbling baronets</a> and poets small,<br>
Pert barristers, and parsons nothing bright,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; But what awaits me now is <a name="P_XXVII_8"></a><a href="#P_XXVII_8n">worst of all</a>.<br><br>
'Tis true, our master's temper natural<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Was fashioned fair in meek and dove-like guise;
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p90" class="page"><div class="center"><em>90</em></div><br>But may not honey's self be turned to gall<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; By <a name="P_XXVII_12"></a><a href="#P_XXVII_12n">residence</a>, by <a href="#P_XXVII_12n2">marriage</a>, and <a href="#P_XXVII_12n3">sore eyes</a>?<br><br>
If then he wreak on me his wicked will;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Steal to his closet at the hour of prayer;<br>
And (when thou hear'st the organ piping shrill)<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Grease his best pen, and all he scribbles, tear.<br><br>
<a name="P_XXVII_17-20"></a><a href="#P_XXVII_17-20n">Better to bottom</a> tarts and cheesecakes nice,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Better the roast meat from the fire to save,<br>
Better be twisted into caps for spice,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Than thus be patched and cobbled in one's grave.<br><br>
So York shall taste what <a name="P_XXVII_21"></a><a href="#P_XXVII_21n">Clouet</a> never knew,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; So from our <a name="P_XXVII_22"></a><a href="#P_XXVII_22n">works</a> sublimer <a href="#P_XXVII_22n">fumes</a> shall rise;<br>
While Nancy earns the praise to Shakespeare due,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_XXVII_24"></a><a href="#P_XXVII_24n">For glorious puddings</a> and immortal pies.
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XXVIII_0"></a><a href="#P_XXVIII_0n">XXVIII.</a><br><br>
IMPROMPTU,<br><br>
<div class="small">SUGGESTED BY A VIEW, IN 1766, OF THE SEAT AND<br>
RUINS OF A DECEASED NOBLEMAN, AT KINGSGATE, KENT.</div><br></div>
Old, and abandoned by each venal friend,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Here Holland formed the pious resolution<br>
To smuggle a few years, and strive to mend<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; A broken character and constitution.
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p91" class="page"><div class="center"><em>91</em></div><br>On this congenial spot he fixed his choice;<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Earl Goodwin trembled for his neighbouring sand;<br>
Here sea-gulls scream, and cormorants rejoice,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And mariners, though shipwrecked, dread to land.<br><br>
Here reign the blustering North and blighting East,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; No tree is heard to whisper, bird to sing;<br>
Yet Nature could not furnish out the feast,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Art he invokes new horrors still to bring.<br><br>
Here mouldering fanes and battlements arise,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Turrets and arches nodding to their fall,<br>
Unpeopled monast'ries delude our eyes,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And mimic desolation covers all.<br><br>
"Ah!" said the sighing peer, "had <a name="P_XXVIII_17"></a><a href="#P_XXVIII_17n">Bute</a> been true,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Nor <a name="P_XXVIII_18"></a><a href="#P_XXVIII_18n">Mungo's, Rigby's, Bradshaw's</a> friendship vain,<br>
Far better scenes than these had blest our view,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And realised the beauties which we feign;<br><br>
"Purged by the sword, and purified by fire,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Then had we seen proud London's hated walls;<br>
Owls would have hooted in St. Peter's choir,<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And foxes stunk and littered in St. Paul's."
<p class="center">———</p>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p92" class="page"><div class="center"><em>92</em></div><br><div class="center"><a name="P_XXIX_0"></a><a href="#P_XXIX_0n">XXIX.</a><br><br>
SATIRE ON THE HEADS OF HOUSES;<br><br>
<div class="small">OR, NEVER A BARREL THE BETTER HERRING.</div><br></div>
O Cambridge, attend<br>
To the Satire I've penned<br>
On the Heads of thy Houses,<br>
Thou Seat of the Muses!<br><br>
Know the Master of Jesus<br>
Does hugely displease us;<br>
The Master of Maudlin<br>
In the same dirt is dawdling;<br>
The Master of Sidney<br>
Is of the same kidney;<br>
The Master of Trinity<br>
To him bears affinity;<br>
As the Master of Keys<br>
Is as like as two pease,<br>
So the Master of Queen's<br>
Is as like as two beans;<br>
The Master of King's<br>
Copies them in all things;<br>
The Master of Catherine<br>
Takes them all for his pattern;<br>
The Master of Clare<br>
Hits them all to a hair;<br>
The Master of Christ<br>
By the rest is enticed;<br>
But the Master of Emmanuel
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p93" class="page"><div class="center"><em>93</em></div><br>Follows them like a spaniel;<br>
The Master of Benet<br>
Is of the like tenet;<br>
The Master of Pembroke<br>
Has from them his system took;<br>
The Master of Peter's<br>
Has all the same features;<br>
The Master of St. John's<br>
Like the rest of the Dons.<br><br>
As to Trinity Hall<br>
We say nothing at all.
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XXX_0"></a><a href="#P_XXX_0n">XXX.</a><br><br>
AMATORY LINES.<br><br></div>
With beauty, with pleasure surrounded, to languish—<br>
To weep without knowing the cause of my anguish;<br>
To start from short slumbers, and wish for the morning—<br>
To close my dull eyes when I see it returning;<br>
Sighs sudden and frequent, looks ever dejected—<br>
Words that steal from my tongue, by no meaning connected!<br>
Ah! say, fellow-swains, how these symptoms befell me?<br>
They smile, but reply not—Sure Delia will tell me!
<p class="center">———</p>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p94" class="page"><div class="center"><em>94</em></div><br><div class="center"><a name="P_XXXI_0"></a><a href="#P_XXXI_0n">XXXI.</a>
<br><br>
SONG.<br><br></div>
<a name="P_XXXI_1"></a><a href="#P_XXXI_1n">Thyrsis</a>, <a href="#P_XXXI_1n2">when we parted</a>, swore<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_XXXI_2"></a><a href="#P_XXXI_2n">Ere</a> the spring he would return—<br>
Ah! what means <a name="P_XXXI_3"></a><a href="#P_XXXI_3n">yon violet flower</a>!<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; And the buds that deck the thorn!<br>
<a name="P_XXXI_5"></a><a href="#P_XXXI_5n">'Twas the lark that upward sprung!</a><br>
'Twas the nightingale that sung!<br><br>
Idle notes! untimely <a name="P_XXXI_7"></a><a href="#P_XXXI_7n">green</a>!<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Why <a name="P_XXXI_8"></a><a href="#P_XXXI_8n">this</a> unavailing haste?<br>
<a name="P_XXXI_9"></a><a href="#P_XXXI_9n">Western</a> gales and <a href="#P_XXXI_9n">skies</a> serene<br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; <a name="P_XXXI_10"></a><a href="#P_XXXI_10n">Speak</a> <a href="#P_XXXI_10n2">not always winter past</a>.<br>
Cease, my doubts, my fears to move,<br>
<a name="P_XXXI_12"></a><a href="#P_XXXI_12n">Spare the honour of my love.</a>
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XXXII_0"></a><a href="#P_XXXII_0n">XXXII.</a><br><br>
EPITAPH ON MRS. MASON.<br><br></div>
Tell them, though 'tis an awful thing to die,<br>
'Twas e'en to thee, yet, the dread path once trod,<br>
Heaven lifts its everlasting portals high,<br>
And bids the pure in heart behold their God.
<p class="center">———</p>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p95" class="page"><div class="center"><em>95</em></div><br><div class="center"><a name="P_XXXIII_0"></a><a href="#P_XXXIII_0n">XXXIII.</a><br><br>
TOPHET.<br><br></div>
Thus <a name="P_XXXIII_1"></a><a href="#P_XXXIII_1n">Etough</a> looked; so grinned the brawling fiend,<br>
While frighted prelates bowed and called him friend;<br>
I saw them bow, and while they wished him dead,<br>
With servile simper nod the mitred head.<br>
Our mother-church, with half-averted sight,<br>
Blushed as she blessed her grisly proselyte;<br>
Hosannas rung through hell's tremendous borders,<br>
And Satan's self had thoughts of taking orders.
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XXXIV_0"></a><a href="#P_XXXIV_0n">XXXIV.</a><br><br>
COMIC LINES.<br><br></div>
<a name="P_XXXIV_1"></a><a href="#P_XXXIV_1n">Weddell</a> attends your call, and <a href="#P_XXXIV_1n2">Palgrave</a> proud,<br>
<a name="P_XXXIV_2"></a><a href="#P_XXXIV_2n">Stonehewer the lewd</a>, and <a href="#P_XXXIV_2n2">Delaval the loud</a>.<br>
For thee does <a name="P_XXXIV_3"></a><a href="#P_XXXIV_3n">Powell</a> squeeze, and <a href="#P_XXXIV_3n2">Marriot</a> sputter,<br>
And <a name="P_XXXIV_4"></a><a href="#P_XXXIV_4n">Glynn</a> cut phizzes, and <a href="#P_XXXIV_4n2">Tom Neville</a> stutter.<br>
<a name="P_XXXIV_5"></a><a href="#P_XXXIV_5n">Brown</a> sees thee sitting on his nose's tip,<br>
The Widow feels thee in her aching hip;<br>
For thee fat Nanny sighs, and handy Nelly,<br>
And <a name="P_XXXIV_8"></a><a href="#P_XXXIV_8n">Balguy</a> with a bishop in his belly.
<p class="center">———</p>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p96" class="page"><div class="center"><em>96</em></div><br><div class="center"><a name="P_XXXV_0"></a><a href="#P_XXXV_0n">XXXV.</a><br><br>
IMPROMPTUS.<br><br></div>
<div class="small">
&nbsp; &nbsp; These scraps of verse and extempore rhymes were preserved by
Wharton, and were first printed by Mitford (vol. v. pp. 185, 186), who
describes them as "sportive effusions by Gray in a post-chaise, when
travelling with his  friend Dr. Wharton."<br><br>
<div class="center">
Impromptu by Gray on going out of Raby Castle,<br>
after dining with Harry Vane.</div><br></div>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Here lives Harry Vane,<br>
Very good claret and fine champaign.
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="small center">
Epigrams on Dr. Keene, Bishop of Chester.</div><br>
The Bishop of Chester,<br>
Though wiser than Nestor<br>
And fairer than Esther,<br>
If you scratch him will fester.<br><br>
<div class="small">
&nbsp; &nbsp; One day the Bishop having offered to give a gentleman a goose, 
Gray composed his Epitaph, thus:—</div><br>
Here lies Edmund Keene Lord Bishop of Chester,<br>
He eat a fat goose, and could not digest her.<br><br>
<div class="small center">
And this upon his Lady:—</div><br>
Here lies Mrs. Keene the she Bishop of Chester,<br>
She had a bad face which did sadly molest her.
<p class="center">———</p>
</div><br><br><hr><br><div id="p1:p97" class="page"><div class="center"><em>97</em></div><br><div class="small"><div class="center"><a href="#p1:p274">Parody on an Epitaph.</a></div><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; This parody was made on a tour with Dr. Wharton in Cumberland 
and Westmoreland in September, 1767. Wharton made a copy of the lines and 
added the following note:—"Extempore Epitaph on Ann Countess of 
Dorset, Pembroke and Montgomery, made by Mr. Gray on reading the Epitaph on 
her mother's tomb in the Church at Appleby, composed by the Countess in the 
same manner."</div><br>
Now clean, now hideous, mellow now, now gruff,<br>
She swept, she hissed, she ripened and grew rough,<br>
At <a name="P_XXXV_3"></a><a href="#P_XXXV_3n">Brougham, Pendragon, Appleby and Brough</a>.
<p class="center">———</p>
<div class="small center">
A Couplet on Dining.</div><br>
When you rise from your dinner as light as before,<br>
'Tis a sign you have eat just enough and no more.<br><br>
<div class="small"><div class="center"><a href="#p1:p275">Couplet about
Birds.</a></div><br>
&nbsp; &nbsp; Norton Nicholls in his <i>Reminiscences of Gray</i> gives 
the following as "two verses made by Mr. Gray as we were walking in the 
spring in the neighbourhood of Cambridge." This couplet was first printed 
in Mathias' edition of Gray's <i>Works</i> (1814), vol. ii. p. 596.</div><br>
There pipes the woodlark, and the song-thrush there<br>
Scatters his loose notes in the waste of air.
<div class="center"><a name="P_XXXV_0"></a><a href="#P_XXXV_0n">XXXVI.</a><br><br>
Lines Written at Burnham.<br><br></div>
And, as they bow their hoary tops, relate<br>
In murmuring sounds the dark decrees of fate;<br>
While visions, as poetic eyes avow,<br>
Cling to each leaf and swarm on every bough:<br>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XXXV_0"></a><a href="#P_XXXV_0n">XXXVII.</a><br><br>
Lines on Dr. Robert Smith.<br><br></div>
Do you ask why old Focus Silvanus defies,<br>
    And leaves not a chestnut in being?<br>
'Tis not that old Focus himself has got eyes,<br>
    But because he has writ about seeing.<br>
<div class="center"><a name="P_XXXV_0"></a><a href="#P_XXXV_0n">XXXVIII.</a><br><br>
Lines Spoken by the Ghost of John Dennis at the Devil Tavern.<br><br></div>
From purling streams and the Elysian scene,
From groves that smile with never-fading green,
I reascend: in Atropos' despite
Restored to Celadon and upper light.
Ye gods, that sway the regions under ground,
Reveal to mortal view your realms profound;
At his command admit the eye of day:
When Celadon commands, what god can disobey?
Nor seeks he your Tartarean fires to know,
The house of torture and the abyss of woe;
But happy fields and mansions free from pain,
Gay meads and springing flowers, best please the gentle swain.

That little, naked, melancholy thing,
My soul, when first she tried her flight to wing,
Began with speed new regions to explore,
And blundered through a narrow postern door.
First most devoutly having said its prayers,
It tumbled down a thousand pair of stairs,
Through entries long, through cellars vast and deep,
Where ghostly rats their habitations keep,
Where spiders spread their webs and owlish goblins sleep.
After so many chances had befell,
It came into a mead of asphodel:
Betwixt the confines of the light and dark
It lies, of 'Lysium the St. James's Park.
Here spirit-beaux flutter along the Mall,
And shadows in disguise skate o'er the iced Canal;
Here groves embowered and more sequestered shades,
Frequented by the ghosts of ancient maids,
Are seen to rise. The melancholy scene,
With gloomy haunts and twilight walks between,
Conceals the wayward band: here spend their time
Greensickness girls that died in youthful prime,
Virgins forlorn, all dressed in willow-green-i,
With Queen Elizabeth and Nicolini.

More to reveal, or many words to use,
Would tire alike your patience and my muse.
Believe that never was so faithful found
Queen Proserpine to Pluto under ground,
Or Cleopatra to her Mark Antony,
As Orozmades to his Celadony.

P.S. Lucrece for half a crown will show you fun,
But Mrs. Oldfield is become a nun.
Nobles and cits, Prince Pluto and his spouse,
Flock to the ghost of Covent-Garden House:
Plays, which were hissed above, below revive,
When dead applauded that were damned alive.
The people, as in life, still keep their passions,
But differ something from the world in fashions.
Queen Artemisia breakfasts on bohea,
And Alexander wears a ramilie. 